TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jonathan Savage 

Date:10AUG2020

Participant #: 124

Length of the Interview: 15:50

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch 

Participant (Code in black):



What time is it?  



Uhh 7:45



Ok I am just going to ask you a series of questions and you can answer them, you know, as well as you can. Umm, When did you start BUDS? 



Uhh, I reported to BUDS in March of 2019 and I finally got into a class in June. So, as Os we actually have like an interim before we start before actually getting into a class of June 2019. 



Uhh, is this your first BUDS class?



Ok, Is this your first BUDS experience? Yeah, I got rolled from my first class, but yeah, I have never been here before. 





Interview Guide

Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): How many siblings do you have?

3, 2 sisters and a brother





SIO: What, uhh, what’s the order?

Uhh. the oldest is my sister Teagan, then myself, then my younger sister Siri, and the youngest is my little brother Cyrus. 



Uhh, what was your parental situation growing up?

Meaning?



2 parents, 1 parent?



Umm, I had two parents, they were never together their whole life though. So I had like a step mom with my father and my mother had several boyfriends as I grew up. 



So you had a dad, and a stepmom, and a mom, and partners. 



Yes 



So, were your parents divorced? 



They were never married.



They were never married. 



Yep.Oh, and my little brother and little sister are half brother with my father and my step mom. 



Your little brother and your little sister?



Yes. 



What’s your relationship… What was your relationship with your parents?



Yeah, so, they were, my whole life they were very amicable. So, umm, there were times that the relationship was stress, on uhh, stress on myself and my older sister. But, that was, more often it was not the case. I mean, we would like to Christmas and stuff together, so. 











SIO: What is the gender of each sibling? (align with birth order)







SIO: So, what life changing experiences have happened in your life prior to BUDS?

Umm, working backwards from the most recent. I would say, after college I moved to New York, City, umm, I had to navigate that. That was huge confidence building exercise I would say. Umm, and also, I grew up in a farm town, very small, and when I moved to college, kinda seeing larger towns, like stop lights and stuff. That was, uhh, that was very interesting. Uhh, yeah, I guess, uhh, I wrestled my whole life, so that had a huge impact on my whole life, and how I do things, how I approach things. 



Where did you grow up?



Michigan



Michigan. So, how do you think those experiences that you talk about, moving to New York, growing up in a farm town, eventually going to college in a larger city



Ann Arbor, yeah









SIO: Oh, you went to Michigan, ok. Umm, how do you think those events factored into your experience at BUDS? 

A lot of those are like confidence building, the ones that I chose to share with you, are confidence building umm  experiences. So you know I came here knowing that I was going to lead this, you know there was no question that whether, whether or not it was going to happen. I knew that it was going to happen, and I think it is because of those things in my path. Finding my own way here, you know that really helped. There was no uncertainty in my mind when I got here. It was impacted me was that I knew I was going to do the work that I had to get done. So you know...











SIO: How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUDS?

I think well, you know, I consistently do well on like peer evals and they way that I can build relationships here. That just goes a lot farther than what people think. If you are kinda going at this alone, it is going to be much harder versus just like being able to build bonds with guys early on and umm, I think my personality, not just work ethic alone, personality definitely plays into that, just being uhh, able to communicate well with others.















SIO: Describe your background that lead you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community. So, what is meant by that is, do you have any SEALs as family or friends? Uhh, or any military family or friends? 

Uhh, so no family, but umm, I wrestled at Michigan and I was interested in going into the CIA. During Alumni weekend, there was a former Michigan wrestler who is a SEAL Team 6 officer, I think in town, I wanted to meet with him, talk about how to get into intelligence work or whatever. We ended up just kind of talking about his career and uhh, and you know what it was like in the teams. And umm, yeah from there, he has been my mentor, and I would, I would say that is the one person who has influenced my decision then. 







SIO: So tell me a little bit about your childhood, umm, how were disciplined as a child? Spanking? Timeouts?

Oh yeah, my mom, I’d get, I’d get, my mom was pretty hard on me. But you know, I mean, you know, it was definitely not out of like, immaturity or whatever, or like her. I think she had a way that she wanted us to behave and when we didn’t she would come down on us hard. 



Father? 



Uhh, my dad was, I - I don’t know, not that he didn’t respect my mom, I just think that my dad, you know, would tell me to do something and I was like, ok, you know there is no need to bump up against him. Umm, you know, I mean he never really, hit me or my sister. 



For me it was always, just wait till your dad gets home. 



Oh yeah, so I am lucky that he was a lot more calm then my mom. She would just fly off. 

















SIO: Yeah, huh, mine too. Did you move, uhh, around throughout your childhood or teenage years?

I mean we, uhh, we always live in the same … We moved houses or whatever, but we always lived in the same small town or the surrounding farmlands of that town I’d say.



Tell me about your teenage years. Did you participate in a team sport? Wrestling? 



My whole life, since I was 6 years old. Uhh you know, through college, and then you know I also played football, but you know, I was not very uhh. I didn’t find any success in football.









SIO: What have you done in the last 5 years of your life (prior to BUD/S training)?  Would you consider yourself impulsive?  For example, do you have any tattoos?  

Let’s check them time here. You know we are supposed to keep it to 15 minutes. You know I played football until everybody sprouted above me. What have you done in the last 5 years prior to BUDS? 



Umm, I was working in Manhattan. Finance job, and then I spent a year in Michigan as a financial advisor. Let’s see, it's 2020, I guess I would have just been finishing up college five years ago.



So then you joined the Navy after uhh 



I’m sorry?



You joined the Navy after then or?



So, I - I was backtracking, I graduated college, worked as a financial advisor in Michigan, and then worked for three years in Manhattan, and then joined the Navy. Sorry, I did that kind of backwards. 



Would you consider yourself impulsive? 



Ummm, no. 



Example that they ask is here is uhh, whether you have any tattoos. 



No, but uhh, I mean I know a lot of people who have tattoos and they thought a long time about it. 



So you don’t have any tattoos? 



I don’t have any tattoos



You know, I have thought about getting one for 20 years. Almost got one when I finished basic training in the Army. Glad I didn’t. What was the most challenging component of BUDS?  



Ummm, I don’t know, maybe just like the stress of like if you mess something up, they’ll you know, you can get sent away for making like a small mistake.















SIO: What motivates you on a daily basis?

Umm, I think it was just like I made my decision that I was going to finish it before I got here and there was like, there was nothing that was going to change my mind. 















SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? (Holistic question) (Think about your hardest day or event at BUD/S)







SIO: What motivated to push through?  Did you feel like you were supported by the group?







SIO: What practices (physical, mental, spiritual) did you utilize to push through the challenges?

Umm, well, physical, I like think its just grit and umm, yeah there is no like mantras or secrets or anything. You just deal with the pain and compartmentalize it uhh as best you can and uhh I think that’s like, so the compartmentalizing of the like, the uhh, tasks ahead. I got pretty good from wrestling, just having to cut weight and kind of work through a whole season, so umm, I’d say those were the biggest ones I used. 







SIO: When you made a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision?

Yeah, so, uhh, When I made difficult decisions, I would think about how it would affect the group of guys around me and not just like immediately but like moving forward. Umm, for instance, I guy made a mistake, does it really make sense to go tell the instructor staff and kind of lose the respect and trust of the class as a whole?  Just given that specific example they are talking about. Not many difficult decisions need to be made in BUDS though, it is all pretty much straight forward and easy. 







SIO: Can you provide an example?









SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

Umm, I just didn’t give myself any other option. Like, people would ask me what my plan B is and like there is no, this is the only plan I have right now. Its kinda like, so I got rolled, and then I almost failed another pool evolution and I remember thinking to myself, if I get dropped, it would be so much worse than dying. Because it would be like the end of, I don’t even know where my life would go after that. 

 

So I just think that like convincing yourself that like no matter what happens you’re going to make it through, giving yourself no other option, umm, that's why I think I did well here. 







SIO: Did you notice anything different about those that did not make it?  If so, can you describe those differences?

Nope













SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person?

It Hasn’t. Yeah, so umm, I do think that uhh, like, kind of touched on family life, and I grew up in a very unstable home. Umm, I mean, uhh, both parents were felons. There was drug abuse in all my family around too. So I think that that independence that I had at a very young age certainly helped me get through umm. And like the studies about grit and heariness, I have been practicing that since I was a very young child. So, uhh, those, I would say that more than anything. From like a young age, having to deal with, you know, being responsible for people around me making bad decisions and cutting my own path was the biggest factor of why I am here.
