TRANSCRIBER NAME: MCVICKERS

Date: 12 AUG 2020

Participant #: 120

Length of the Interview: 15:04

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide



Is it OK if I record?

Yes. 

And what is your participant ID?

120. 

Easy questions first. When did you start BUD/S, is 339 your first?

No I originally started with class 335 uh got rolled in first phase in the pool, classed back up with 338 in BO and got all the way to third phase with 338 before going to 339. 

Ok so you got all the way to third phase with 338 then to 339?

Yes. 

So that’s some perseverance.

A little bit. 

What happened in third phase during 338?

I was uh doing land navigation and slipped off down the slide of a slope and chipped my tooth. 

Oh gosh, so another medical rollback?

Yes another medical rollback. 

How many siblings do you have?

I have uh two sisters uh one is just turned 18 a senior in high school and the other is 10 years old. 

And you’re the oldest then?

I am. 

Tell me about your parent situation, do you have a two parent household?

I have two parents, my mom and my step dad uh my step dad has been around since I was two he’s my dad

Do you have any contact with your birth dad?

Um no I haven’t talked to him.

What’s their situation like at home? Loving household?

They’re very supportive, they’re loving, pushing us to strive for our best. 

Did you live in one place all of your life or move around a lot?

Um just two houses.

Where did you grow up?

Um Tucson Arizona.

Its very different land out there!

Very barren. 

Any life changing events that happened prior to coming to BUD/S?

Uh senior year football, I got a hernia the first game of the season and had to get surgery the next day and couldn’t play football the rest of the senior year season. Very traumatic for me I thought I had worked all high school and senior year was kinda over right there. 

Do you think because you had two medical rollbacks that helped you get through?

Uh ya so I kinda correlated it a lot its just another one thing that happened its like might as well push on with it. 

Did you go to college or are you coming straight from high school?

Straight from high school I looked into colleges but uh wasn’t really focused on the school aspect of it and said you know might as well go for it. 

So you went to boot camp then came here?

Yeah so I went to bootcamp in July of 2018 I was 17 at the time and had my mom sign a form. 

When did 335 start?

We got here December 3rd of 2018. 

And been in San Diego ever since?

Yep its been a little while now. 

How did any of your experiences from childhood factor into your experiences here at BUD/S?

I would mainly say that my mom was very strict so it correlates very easily with instructors being up your butt all the time just like my mom, she also never let me have an excuse and was like you know what you want to do so get it done. I came out here and they treat me just like my mother did.  

What would be an example of her strictness?

Um there was just no room for error, she knew from a young age that I wanted to come out here and do this so she always held me accountable and just never let me slack off. Sit on the couch too long and she would make you go find something to do. 

What about your personality and how that contributed to getting through BUD/S?

Uh I will definitely say a lot of these guys who are older and out of college are a lot more mature than me and they have taught me a lot. Um and I talk a lot jump around a lot but they would help me move down to uh more their level … I’m just like young, smart, a lot of energy. 

Are you lighthearted or more serious?

I would say I’m more lighthearted I take some things seriously you know. 

Do you think that helped?

I think that does help because there has to be someone in the class who keeps the morale up and then there has to be someone who gets them where they need to go. 

That’s not the first time I’ve heard that lightheartedness helps a lot, so not a bad thing. What about your background led you to want to join the SEAL community? 

Um I was about eight years old at a family barbeque and uh I knew I wanted to be in the military from a young age and my uncle was like the Navy SEALs are the best of the best so if you want to be the uh best warrior be a Navy SEAL and I said OK and ever since that day. 

Now was anybody a SEAL in your family?

Nope uh nobody was uh except for my grandfather he was a Marine in World War II. 

No other military?

No. 

But you from an early age wanted to be in the military? What made you want to be in the military?

Uh I was just I always liked structure like uh I had like an internal clock like at this time I wanted to get ready so I always wanted to be something structured and always thought being a solider was cool so I wanted to be a soldier as a kid.

What about your childhood, what was parenting style and discipline?

So uh my mom was definitely always the ruler of the household uh she said something everyone goes by it, my dad was always more of the supportive dad. Supported what she said of course but also behind her back helps us out uh he could also be strict at times too especially for me too since I’m the oldest boy. 

What was discipline like? Spanking?

Uh young age there was spanking and then when I got a little too old for that they would just make me sit in my room. 

What about your teenage years?

Uh teenage years I just uh did a lot of skip school and try to go get McDonalds uh … other than that just go mess around in the desert on the rocks you know. 

Would you say that in school, how focused were you?

Uh it depends on what the class was I liked history I liked of course PE but math I hated math but always understood it very well so I was always in the accelerated math classes but didn’t want to sit in the class and do it so I would always be the joker in the class or just sit in the class and doodle. 

Tell me more about your sports experience, football, what you liked about it and didn’t?

Uh I liked the teamwork, just like the competitiveness of it, of course the big stadium lights. 

How do you think that might have played into it?

Uh definitely you have to work as a team here if you can’t be a team player then you have like rips and tears. Everything works better as a team of course there’s also like individual work here just like football if you’re not going to go out on your own and workout its not going to correlate like skillswise … it just helps you with like you got to win the big game all the time.

What about the last five years before BUD/S? Highschool straight to bootcamp then BUD/S?

Yes high school straight to bootcamp and then BUD/S. 

Would you consider yourself impulsive?

Uhm no looking back at it it was like really short when I graduated and joined the Navy but uh I had been thinking about it for years prior it was just finally time to be serious.

What about tattoos, impulsive behaviors like speeding tickets?

No I don’t have any speeding tickets. I want to get a tattoo but you know, got to wait. 

What was the most challenging component of BUD/S?

Uh just the every day you got to wake up and you know its not going to be fun but you got to get through it but everyone else has got to do it too. 

What helped you get through that? That’s a long time to have to get through. 

You find guys who you work with who are you know your same height and in the same boat crew with them and they’re guys who want to be here too and you just push each other and just joke around when you can and it just makes the day go by a little bit faster. 

What about for you? Since you’re younger than a lot of people, kind of the outlier, was it harder to get people to be a part of your support group?

No I would say that I was kind of like the younger brother who is easy to talk to, you know the older guys can be a little scary to talk to but I’m just easy to talk to and you know I have a lot to learn too so they just come and coach and teach too.

What about anything you did physical, mental, or spiritual that helped you get through this process?

Um didn’t do anything physically besides just trying to eat more calories just try to think about what I didn’t do good at what I need to do better. 

Any spiritual component for you?

Um sometimes I would pray a little bit here and there, but not on a regular basis. 

Anytime you had to make a difficult decision here? Ethical or moral or personal or watching someone else do something?

Uh it was hard, you think a lot about it and then you ask your friend what would they do. I can’t really think of anything that comes to mind though. 

Why do you think that you were successful in BUD/S?

Uh I’m stubborn. 

Talk to me a little bit about that. 

Uh if I put my mind to something its going to stay there a while and … its just like … I don’t want to get up and leave and then have to try this later its just like do it now and it sucks but whatever you’ll live. 

Anything that you noticed about the people who made it verse those who quit? Specifically those who quit? 

Um I always felt like they had like something always like limiting them like mentally I’m not sure if they were uncertain of their capabilities or uh they just didn’t like being hurt or training but I could tell guys who made it could suck it up or they’ll find something to laugh about.

Does laughter play a big role in getting through this?

Uh at times yeah, especially after you get through something hard it helps like just relieve just a little bit of stress and then get focused on the next task. 

How has this experience changed you as a person?

I’ve definitely matured uh it’s taught me a lot of like how hard work can get you anywhere you got to go I’ve never really experienced that before in high school. Just shows like if you’re willing you can do anything. 

Anything else you think I should have asked you that I didn’t?

Nope. 

Well you’re all done then, congratulations and good luck. 

Thank you.
