TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jesse Hall

Date: 1/16/2020

Participant #: 3

Interviewer (Code in blue): CDR Andrew Ledford

Participant (Code in black): #3



Interview Guide



CDR: Alright so I'm with um candidate number 3? Got your informed consent, um so basically what we’re doing is I’m just going through questions on your background, you’re good with me recording this, um it’s just basically a way for us to get your background, and the only way we’re gonna ID you is through your student ID which I’ve got here



3: Sounds good.



CDR: Okay. So the date is 5 December and the time is 1:23 PM. So first off some softball questions uh how many siblings do you have?



3: I have 4 siblings uh 3 siblings



CDR: 3, you and 3?



Yup



So and what was their order like where are you at in the order?



I am third



You’re the third and what was the uh so your oldest was?



He’s uh I wanna say 37



So how many years older was he than you



Um five



Brother… 5 years older and then um middle was



Middle, second brother was 34 so he’s 2 years older



2 years older… older than him Ok got it, so if you’re thinking about the experiences that happened to you growing up in your lifetime um what experiences do you feel like contributed to you being able to get to training, get to BUD/S?



3: My parents are really strict, and just the people I met growing up.  



And the people you met? So how so like what kind of people?



One of them was uh one of my mentors- was a retired senior chief -  and the stories he told me about the teams and everything else he’s done definitely attracted me to the teams



So he was just a family friend?



No actually I just met him by coincidence, and then talked from there and then talking to him I read pretty much every book I could find about the teams and went from there



CDR:Um what about your personality do you think contributed toward you getting through BUD/S?  



3:  I’d say just [unitelligible] the biggest thing is probably just not quitting all this [unintelligible] just finish whatever I start, I’d say that’s the biggest thing that just kept me going and then always with the attitude of uh expecting the worst case scenario and then not really caring too much about it



CDR: Good...  So talk a little more about your childhood- [CDR telling them to quiet down] a little more about your childhood growing up, you mentioned your parents were pretty strict, so like how would they discipline you as a child? Like spanking



3: Yeah usually spanking or belt, kicked out of the house, stuff like that



Kicked out of the house?



Yeah



CDR: Well like how long would you guys get kicked out of the house for?  Like a day?



3:  For alike a week



A week?



Yeah, I would just hang out with friends.  



No way so definitely a little bit beyond just time outs



Oh yeah, they really brought their, both my parents are from the Philippines, so they brought uh some traditions back with em



So you’d consider them very traditional Phillipino?



Yeah for the most part yeah



Talking about your teenage years a little bit, did you guys move around a lot, did you?



Uh we bounced around a little bit but not nothing crazy um I’d say like when we were like 8 or 9 we bounced around a couple states but pretty much we settled w settled when we were like 12, 13 and stayed there



Bounced around a little bit, did you move multiple times around that time like?



Oh just to the same spots



Oh okay



Yeah just from Michigan to Ohio so just two states just for uh parents work



What about um sports and activities, what kind of sports and activities did you-?



I played football, did uh wrestling and uh track as well



Which one would you say, football, wrestling



I’d say the heaviest was probably football, really got into that. Wrestling I really did only one year, my senior year and then track did 3 years, but mostly involved in uh really [unintelligible] football and that when I got PT [unintelligible] in football



In football?



Yeah



What would you say in the last 5 years, your experiences in the last 5 years that have really contributed to you being here or you getting through the training.



Um just uh I was originally with Class 306 and that was 6 years ago so that really uh



Oh really wow



Yep, so literally just getting back like the first few years was really every day just thinking about getting back and what am I doing to get back, so that was a big one, and then um



So 306, did you did you quit 306?



Oh I was uh performance dropped in uh week 3 of first phase



You did what?



Performance failed or dropped



Oh yeah mhm



So just the really big drive to get back in it again, and then another big one was just family uh the death of my brother.



And what?



The death of my uh brother was a big contributing factor keeping me going the last years



Sorry to hear that um which brother was this was this the oldest?



Oh no actually my youngest uh I’m 30 uh he’s the 4th, so I have uh 3 brothers, not including myself



Oh okay so he was the younger brother?



Yep



Oh okay so you had 4?



Yeah not including myself



Yeah so you were….4 and how many years younger was?



He was 6 years younger than me



6 years….Younger?



Younger



Younger, oh wow… and younger brother…. How many years ago did that happen?



2017, so uh 2 years ago



and sorry to ask all these questions about him but uh what we’re interested in is what makes people who they are, and probably a good portion of this is on your younger brother….



Oh yeah



So would you say that’s probably one of the hardest experiences-?



Oh yeah without a doubt



And it’s not something uh was it unexpected?



Oh yeah very he was killed by a uh drunk driver



Sorry dude…



Yeah [unintelligible] was totally surprised



So when you were when you were going through BUD/S what were the experiences that motivated you, not experiences but what things motivated you?



Um I’d say just the guys next to ya, or the guys next to me that was the biggest thing just seeing them, if they were having a bad time just it can’t be that bad obviously you want to help out your buddy you grow and you form really good connections with em so like you really wanna see your good friends make it through as well, you do whatever you can to get em through



What do you think was the most challenging component for you getting through, not just an evolution or activity but could be overall like what did you think the hardest time in your experience at BUD/S?



I don’t know I’d say the hardest part was just getting back but uh I’d say during like physical or just overall?



Just overall



I’d say just the grind but uh



The grind?



Yeah but it’s not really that it really wasn’t that bad I’d say, not a contributing factor but it never made me consider not continuing, I’d say the hardest part was just getting back



What do you think, you talked about like the grind, what do you think it was that kept you that motivated you to stick through it with the grind?



Umm I guess before I even start with getting back, I guess there wasn’t even an option of quitting, so like probably the only way I was getting out was my performance or like injuries, just had that expectation that it’s going to get worse or something worse is going to happen so it’s not that bad. 



Were there practices, like anything you did on a consistent basis, like could’ve been spiritual, could’ve been mental, physical, something that you did on a normal basis that would help you get through?



Um I would say just having a light attitude and just not really caring too much about like nothing too far ahead and just living in the present, really just staying relaxed, I think just during the training or even ater, staying relaxed and enjoying the training when I’m off



Um when people talk about enjoying their time going through BUD/S



Oh yeah exactly, the small things just to enjoy it



Was there a point at all in BUD/S where you had to make some kind of difficult decision?



Yeah I’d say um probably Hell Week where um there’s some people just not carrying their weight and you just gotta push past it and I learned you can try running em out but like you have to keep the pace



What’s that?



You have to keep the pace with like running boats or what not and somebody can’t keep up and it’s just a shitty ass situation



So what about that what kind of situation did you have to make that



Um I would say based on the person that was, if it was good person from, if he was just having a bad day then yeah obviously you’d try to carry him through that evolution but if it’s like constant like throughout the entire pipeline they’ve been slacking or just being a turd, alright well he’s not contributing he hasn’t been helping with the boat crew, it’s time to just keep pushing through, if you can’t keep up you can’t keep up that kinda deal



And so what would you guys, what would what would happen like did you what would go from there[unintelligible] like a decision?



Oh yeah our entire boat crew would just [unintelligible] push through, go faster



Oh okay, the boat crew would kind of like pick up the pace?



Yup



Kind of the intentionally leave him behind or?



Yep, mainly if they’re like one of those guys that been a problem since day one, kind of just like hanging on



So why would that why was that the most difficult decision?



I mean ya uh you know because every single guy that’s here wants to be here and it’s their dream and for the most part they’re they’re 100% committed to the class, the team, and every body else, but sometimes they’re just not at the time physically ready and you know like definitely some of them are still around but it’s just not helping the class



And do you feel like you were a part of that too or kind of an observer?



Kind of part of it



Um what do you think things that made you successful at BUD/S what do you think those things were like why do you think you’re here and other people aren’t



I’d say probably just living in the moment and the biggest thing is probably just not caring to much about like any beatings or just looking at the small things and just having fun with it, I just find the humor in everything. That was probably the biggest thing just, yeah you’re getting hammered and you see somebody just make a weird sound or whatever and you see another guy [unintelligible] get hammered and he’s in the same boat as you, just laughing at the small stuff



Yeah



That helped out, just not really caring too much about any of the beatings



Um and did you notice anything different about the guys who are not here anymore, was there something different about them?



Um I’d say the biggest thing uh pretty sure the stronger guys or guys you thought were mentally tough, they may not be consistent with the way they acted, like may be [unintelligible] or like getting down on themselves, that was the weirdest contributing factor for some of the guys, or not really being present and thinking too far ahead



Awesome, alright, perfect, that’s awesome dude, alright, I appreciate it I think that’s it I think that’s all we’ve got
