TRANSCRIBER NAME:

Date:

Participant #: 

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black)



I: Yeah the recorder is on, is it okay if I record the interview?

P: Yes

I: Ok, this is participant 98. I’m going to put this really close to you so I can hear you, I know my questions. So easy questions first, how many siblings do you have?

P: Two

I: Okay and what is the birth order?

P: What’s the?

I: What kind of birth order, where do you fall?

P: Uh, I’m the middle child

I: And then, whats kinda the gender breakdown of your siblings?

P: They’re both females.

I: Okay…. Thinking about your life experiences, what might you describe as your crucible or kind of life shaping experiences?

P: Probably the school that I went to for 13 years, basically Kindergarten all the way up to 12th grade and the experience of going there and sustaining that education was extremely beneficial for me.  Seeing the same teachers as I got older and being unable to connect back with them, um when I think about some of the most influential people in my life, its, its from (cannot discern) school. I’d say that's a big one.

I: I’m gonna put this really close up, I’m just afraid its not going to catch..

P:Sure

I: With the background noise 

P: Right, uh I’ll lean in, Um.. I also believe that I went North Carolina and played lacrosse there and so...playing lacrosse at North Carolina was an extremely formative experience for me and the successes and failures there absolutely were essential, So I'd say that's another crucible. And… I did some traveling after college before I got into the military and so one of those things I did was sailing across the Atlantic, Cape Town to the Carribean. And that right there was the time of some of the best reflection I’ve ever had.

I: Yeah

P: Internal reflection, but I also spent some time, you know just a few select people and getting to know them on a really really deep level. Going through uh, interesting, uh you know in some cases hardships but more just about this physical experience was really unique.

I: Was that something, I mean how did, what motivated you to do that? Were you a sailor? Whats…

P: I wasn’t a big sailor, it was more just the interest in getting adventure. Um, and it had always been on my mind if I ever had the opportunity to do a crossing, I wanted to do one, So…

I: And then, did you know the people before you did that?

P: I did not, no.

I: How many people were there?

P:There were…. 6 of us on the way over to Brazil and then there was just 2 of us on the way to the Carribean.

I: Um, how did those experiences, like any of them.. There was this sailing experience or you said you had some failures, sports, how did that kind of shape your experience here at Buds or help you? 

P: I’d say it just helped me to be resilient. Um, when I think about playing lacrosse at Carolina, having small, maybe call them micro failures in a game, practice. Learning how to have a one track mind, just hit the reset button and kinda have that hammered into your brain of uh, if you uh dwell on the failure you just had, that’s gonna compound and could result in having a really bad day, week, month and that's when players tend to go through really bad slumps and you know potentially quit the game altogether. So, I think learning how to um, learn from mistakes, particularly at Carolina was a big one.  Um, I’d say that there's one other  place that comes to mind just because it developed a growth mindset for me, placed called Camp Pasquanni.  I went there as a camper, I worked there as a counselor for 3 years and something that we instilled everyday and practiced everyday as counselors with the boys is how can we help this boy, that boy understand what it means to have a growth mindset. How can we implement that with them um, because I think that is one of the most important things a young growing person can have is that lack of a fixed mindset and the ability to recognize that failure is a good thing and a lot of what you’re doing is just growth, experiential.

I: Is that where you were kind of introduced to the idea of growth mindset?

P: Absolutely, yeah

I: And what age were you when you were at this camp?

P: I was 12 years old as a camper and then as a counselor, I was there for 3 years so that was when I was 22, 23, and 24… I believe.

I: Um, how would you describe your personality and how do you think your personality contributed to progressing through Bud’s?

P: I um, I think I’m a type A individual, like a lot of the guys here. But I think I usually fall on the more soft spoken side. Um and there are parts of my personality that are introverted in the sense that I like to read or even like paint, stuff like that. Do things that are um, very introverted, I guess introverted activities. And then there are other parts of me that are extremely extroverted and like to be in that realm so its more of a balance set of character traits. Something that I strive to be is somewhat of a Renaissance man.

I: A what?

P: A Renaissance, that's what I strive to be.

I: So a minute ago, more specifically into your childhood, what in your background led you to becoming a Seal?

P: So what led me to want to become a Navy Seal?

I: Yeah

P: Being on sports teams and experiencing what its like to, to go through challenges with a group of people is a big one. Recognizing how beneficial that is for me personally, to share in hardship and experience success, group success with guys I think is something that is addicting and …. Some of the greatest moments of my life have been shared experiences with a group towards a goal, and achieving a goal. So it made a lot of sense to me, to go to the best possible tea I could think of joining.

I: At what point did you know that you wanted to become a Seal?

P: Two and a half years ago.

I: Okay, and that was post college?

P: Post college

I: So tell me, I’m gonna ask more about that in just a minute, but tell me a little bit about your early childhood?

P: I grew up in a, so a, two parents who are still together today and with my sisters were all close in age, so I;d say it was a very healthy childhood in that sense.

I: What was your parents parenting style?

P: Loving and they, a lot of it was built on trust. And so they were not the aggressive, in their, in the way they reprimanded us but they would more or less communicate that the trust was lost when we did something as kids that wasn't good and that, our relationship was strong enough that that was the worst possible, kind if like penalty that we could receive. So losing that trust and I think that that was something that was really formative for us as kids. Before we knew how to deal with people and manage people. Um, there was not a lot of shouting and uh, I think that that level of calm in dealing with the conflicts that we created as kids has rubbed off on us in a good way.

I: What about discipline in your house? Were you spanked at all, put in time outs, had toys taken away or was it all just…?

P: I’d say there was very little timeout type stuff, although there was some of that. And the physical piece was not really a thing, uh my parents were not aggressive and the penalties usually involved stuff being taken away, more restriction.

I: Um, what about your teenage years, you talk about playing sports but did you move around at all during your teenage years or even earlier in your childhood?

P: Stayed in the same place that I grew up in the whole time, uh so I was focused a lot on the sports. 

I: And you played a lacrosse…?

P: I played lacrosse, and a bunch of others like, liked to do a lot of different things and I’d say.. I wasn’t into theatre, Um, I did in the teenage years start to get into art so that was a big thing for me.

I: Was there an art group or was that just on your own?

P: There was a teacher in the 7th grade who kinda said, hey kind of have an eye for this, would you like to do more of this outside of school and I started to do that, you know outside of the sports practices. I’d go there and do work for maybe an hour or two, painting and drawing and thats where it started and I continued on through high school and college and its still part of my life today but not to the same capacity.

I: What about the last five years of your life, what have they been like? Kind of leading up to the Seals?

P: So part of that includes college and a lot of that was dedicated to lacrosse, the social life at Carolina, my academics, all of that stuff was avery enjoyable time. Uh lived very carefee, did not have any fixed ambitions of joining the military, just kind of dreamed fantasies, long distanced thoughts. Then , got out of Carolina, did some traveling as I mentioned and all of that was designed to get out into the world in order to figure out what I wanted to do back in the States perhaps. I really wasnt boxing myself in, I just wanted to get out and feel the freedom of traveling. So thats, a lot of it was unknown, a lot of unknowns, and in that time there was lot of relflection, writin and reading that you know enabled me to figure out that this was the place, you know, this pipeline was the one I wanted to go through and ultinately becoming a Naval Officer is what I was gonna do.

I: What about impulses? Do you consider yourself impulsive at all?

P: Yes

I: So you talked about some kind of impulsive behaviors in your life…

P: I would say that if somebody that I trust was like hey, we’re gonna go play volleyball and threw a volleyball at me, I’d probably sto what I was doing an play volleyball.

I: Any negative impulsive behavior? I don't know maybe a tattoo on a whim or…

P: No, I haven't had a tattoo on a whim and no I don’t think there are any that come to mind that are like bad impulsive behavior that have had like repercussions, that I look back on and really regret. I don’t have a lot of regrets in life, that I can really find.

I: And any tattoos, I know its seems like.

P: I have a tattoo yeah

I: But its something that is profound and..

P:Yeah, its a sibling tattoo. I’ve had it for I think 4 years now and we probably talked about it for 5, 6 years prior to getting it, so.

I:Um, any sort of driving violations like speeding tickets, anything like that?

P: There’s nothing on my record, no

I: [Not discernable] I know it seems like an odd question

P: No, thats ok, I’m not judging at all

I: What motivates you on a daily basis?

P: Working with the guys that I’ve been going through this pipeline with, is probably the most motivating aspect. Because when you’re driving to work, yeah some days its great but ragged to the bone kind of in your own head, thinking about it. The boat you can kind of get into it, can work with the guys, you get lost in the experience of it and that is what makes you come back and I think is what is the most enjoyable piece of the puzzle. 

I: What if you think about the most challenging piece of Buds, whether it be a big thing or jsut a signle day, what might that be?

P: The most challenging thing?

I: Yeah

P: Its the day in and the day out and I’ve heard a lot of guys talk about that, I ould agree with it. Its the wear and tear on your body.  That you know then creates a mental fatigue and so I think that it ultimately comes down to the mental fatigue, stress that comes with this pipeline. I’ve certainly felt it and I think everyone feels it one way or another.

I: So what do you think motivated you to push through that mental fatigue?

P: The experiences from the past, I think that I’ve been through have helped me cope with that stuff but ultimately its having a very clear goal and ends, goal in sight that you can hold onto when things are going really crummy. And that manifests itself in different ways, one of the personal goals is just not to let my friends down, the people that I’m working with down. I owe it to them to keep going. For my family and so thats a small thing, there are a bunch of those in my mind but thats just one of the factors that I could draw stregnth from, like ok if I quit now, I’m gonna be dissapointing quite a few people. Myself yes, but a lot of people whpo have put a lot of time and effort investing in me and I owe it to myself and to them to continue on.

I: Any specific practices, whether it be mental, physical, spiritual that you would utilize as you progressed through Buds?

P: Uh….. I practiced a little bit of meditation, from time to time.

I: Anything else you would use?

P: Music, yeah music. I don’t know if that counts but I found that to ber quite often, that I’m going back to if I have free time. Could involve music probably.

I: Is it something you like listening to with ear buds or out loud?

P: Probably out loud. Um, sharing that experience with people but ear buds If I’m in a public place that is not [not discernable]

I: What about a difficult decision you had to make during training at Buds. What went through your mind as you made that decision?

P: One of the difficult decisions I had tio make was one back, First Phase, the guy who, um I was our ROC at the time and I had to make a decision as to whether or not this person deserved to, what he had done, to be exposed and brought to light to the cadre because of the severity of the issue. Fortunately, I had other guys helping me to make the decision and I was helping them to make the decision. But I look back on that as very stressful and um, I think I’ll draw on that experience in the future.

I: So you don’t have to tell me all the details but was that an ethical type of decision?

P: Yes, it was ethical

I: About something that person had done?

P: Yes

I: Why do you think you were successfull at Buds?

P: Mindset

I: Wat about your mindset helped you to be successful?

P: A clear vision of where I’m going and wo I’m going there with

I: And when you refer to who you are going their with?

P: These other guys in my class

I: Did you notice anything different about the guys that made it through Buds reative to the rest of the group and if so what was different?

P: I can’t say for everyone but recognizing a ike minded individual in each guy that has made it this far.

I: Would you say you are a calm person?

P: Yes

I: Have you always been that way?

P: No

I: When did you switch from being less calm?

P: I think it was perhaps going through puberty and stuff like that. I think I was a little bit more outgoing, uh outspoken probably the better way to put it.  Now I just maybe do a little less talking and a little more listening. I could definitely be a better listener. But yeah I think I’m not quite as extroverted as I was in say highschool, middle school, perhaps sometime in college I started making that transition. After maybe getting counseled and talking to people and learnig and sort of observing the world and realized that perhaps it was better to do a little more listening.

I: Um, thats it, well done. Congratulations!

P: Thank you so much, appreciate it.

I: It was good to meet you

P: Likewise, thanks for your time
