TRANSCRIBER NAME:

Date: 18AUG2020

Participant #: 340

Length of the Interview: 13:56

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Raver-Luning

Participant (Code in black):



Ok, is it ok if I record this interview?



Yes.



And what is your participant ID? 



340 



Ok. 340. So, um,  easy questions to start, what is your BUD/S class?



Uh, 339.



You're 339.



But, uh,



Your original class, I should ask.



Oh, 335.



Ok. And then, what's kind of, what was your BUD/S process?



Uh, secured with 335, had a broken foot. Uh, took a while to heal, healed up, classed up, end with 3-9. 



Ok, so you didn't have any classes in between?



No.



And at what point did you break your foot in 335?



Uh, it was right before hell week.



Ok. so you, does that mean you start back at the beginning?



No, I secured and then I just continued on as a brown, brown shirt.

 

Interview Guide

Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Siblings? How many siblings do you have?



I have a twin sister.



Ok. any other siblings?



uh, nope.



Um, and what's your parent situation? Two parent household?



Two parent household.



Still married?



Yeah, still married.



And would you consider your family close? or?



Yes. 





SIO: Any life changing experience that happened to you prior to BUD/S? Positive, negative, anything that stands out?



I'm pretty normal. Suburban upbringing.



Where did you grow up?



Uh, bay area, San Clara, so yeah.



SIO: Um, did you kind of, high school, what was kind of your process?



High school, college, then came here.



SIO: Ok. and where did you go to college?



Uh, Pepperdine.



Ok. I know it. I did my MBA there.   



Oh! Awesome.  



Yeah, so except I went to Irvine for the MBA, so I say I paid for it, paid for the view, but went to Irvine. Cause I lived in San Diego for several years. Yeah, I  know it very well. Love Pepperdine. Um, what was your major?



Uh, philosophy and political science.



Really? So, my undergrad is in philosophy.



Wait, really? Where did you go to undergrad?



Uh, University of Maryland, uh, Baltimore County, um, so yeah.  



Amazing. Excellent choice.



Yeah. so philosophy, MBA, PhD in organizational leadership. Very strange.



Yes. but I think that's like, the best way to go within academics. I don't know what my next route is either. It's like, eh, we’ll see.



So you know I've got a little, I've got the philosophy, I've got the practical business and I don't know what a PhD in organizational leadership is considered. Some weird social science. But that's not why we’re here.     





SIO: Tell me a little about your personality, and kind of how you think it contributed to getting through BUD/S?



Um, I love to learn.



Ok.



Um just, being inquisitive, and figure out a purpose mindwise in relation to helping others, and um, yeah those two things together I think make it, um, an easier experience.  



SIO: Now, what about, what made you want to become part of the SEAL community?



Just help. Help and learn. 



Ok.



I think this is the best environment to do that um, in every respect. Learn about the social dynamics of the world, about myself, and then be in a position to help them in a unique environment. It's, yeah.  



SIO: Now did you come from a military family at all?



No.



SIO: Know any SEALs? Anything like that? Special forces? No. so what made you say SEALs versus just any other special forces, or any other…?



Uh, the water. 



Ok.



I played water polo and I loved the water, um, and, I think that was just the final choice within direction.



Uh huh.



Um, just want  (unintelligible). 



SIO: And at what point did you kind of decide I want to be part of the military? I want to become a SEAL?



When I was 11 probably.



Ok. What was that, kind of?



Just, I want to serve.



Ok.



SIO: Um, tell me a little bit about your childhood. More specifically, like your parents discipline style. Were they strict? Were they…? 



Um, fair, strict when needed to be, liberal when needed to be, uh, pleasant. 



SIO: What was discipline like? Timeouts? Spankings? 



Timouts, spankings, um, conversation. Just depended on circumstance and whether or not I was capable of understanding what I did wrong and whatnot.



SIO: Did you move around at all during your childhood?



No. 



Always in the Same house?



Same house.



SIO: what about, tell me a little more about your teenage years? Tell me about the sports you played.



Uh, played water polo, swam, um, that's pretty much it for sports. 



Um, were those both in high school?



Yes.



Um, anything about them, being part of those teams, that you think, other than the water aspect, that helped contribute to your experience here? 



Um, I mean, it's a dynamic environment playing water polo. Uh, you have to think within different situations and you have to be physical, but at the same time know when to like (unintelligible). I mean it's the same with any sport though, it's like finding that balance obviously I think that helps in relation to having to work with others. Um.   



SIO: Um, what about in the last 5 years? So when did you graduate from Pepperdine and kind of, was there any in between time?  



Uh, slight in between time. Graduated in winter of 2017, went home. Uh, started to run, because I hadn't done that. Been in the water my whole life.



Ok.



And just worked odd jobs, and then enlisted, and came here.  



And when did you enlist?



July 2018.



Ok. So then bootcamp and straight here. 



Yes.



SIO: Uh, Would you consider yourself impulsive at all?



No.



SIO: Any tattoos, lots of speeding tickets, anything like that?



No. 





SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? (Holistic question) (Think about your hardest day or event at BUD/S)



Commitment at BUD/S?



 Challenging component.



Oh. um, breaking my foot and having to do hell week knowing that I had a broken foot was, was a doozy. um, but sure better than repeating it all. So. I would say that was hard. 





SIO: What got you through that?



Uh, family, I mean I've lived a pretty privileged life and I've had a lot of opportunities afforded to me. Just wanted to, be able to know that, give back and that it's not about me type of deal.



Yeah.



And know that there's kids around the world who have absolutely nothing.and, Just pretty easy to stop thinking about yourself.  



SIO: What about, um, so, you had a broken foot, but you still got through hell week. I mean, was there any point where, like, I'm just gonna say I'm injured and come back and, you know. Um, anything that, beyond family, that was really the driving force to?



Um, well I've always seen this as a philosophical quest.



Yeah, 



Like Plato's republic, that first we must become a warrior... (unintelligible). And obviously.  



Let me just say something. You're the first person who has brought up Plato's republic in all these interviews, but I love it, so keep going. Sorry. 



This is gonna be tangential, but I guess I’m going down this rabbithole. um, yeah, and then obviously within the psyche of the individual, and overcoming all these different desires in order to better understand yourself, and I think that relation to knowing who you ought to be, uh, is important then removing yourself from the physical equation. And learning whether or not that is actually true, and this place is an excellent environment to learn just that. Um, I guess in a different note, for a different answer. I mean obviously I thought about that, but. 



That's a great answer. I won't forget this interview for that very reason. 



SIO: Um, any other practices you utilized to get through BUD/S? Um, spiritual, mental, physical? 



No, I’m not spiritual.





SIO: Um. was there any point uh, where you either had to make a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, like a kind of ethical or moral decision, about, for yourself, or you observed somebody maybe cutting corners and you had to, decided, how will I deal with this situation?



Um, no I, I never had uh, a personal encounter with it. Obviously you hear of other people seeing something. 



Yeah.



And then, but, not personally, I had to be the actor in that specific sort of thing. So. 





SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?



For the reasons I listed above. Helping others, and wanting to learn. And obviously my wierd, maybe tainted, view of the world. 



SIO: Um, why do you think the people that made it through, made it through, versus the people that, specifically, the people that quit, not necessarily the people who got injured? What's the difference I guess?



Um, just simple desire to forget about yourself. You're not important, you don’t ever deserve a pat on the back. And the people that realize that are able to separate themselves from their, their emotions. I almost feel like their, like prefrontal cortex and amygdala turns off, and they like, start to understand. 



Yeah.



I would say, like, maybe that's maybe what's happening. Um, I'd say that's probably the biggest thing.   









SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How has this experience changed-completing BUD/S-changed you as a person, if at all? 



Uh, hasn't changed me. I see this as just simply like an admissions ticket, and I'm still in college and I have a long more way to go, and hopefully I’m successful and have a job within this community and make a difference. But, it's just something that’s necessary to do and no different than completing anything else within the realm of what you view as important. 



Yeah. Anything else that I should have asked that I didn't ask? Maybe a little more about Plato’s Republic. 



I would love to have a conversation about Plato’s Republic.



I’m a, I’m an Aristotle fan personally.



I, I am as well. I am as well. Virtue Ethics I think is probably a little bit more compatible with living than, than that. But within the idea of this, I think it's, it's a fun thing to, yeah. 



It is, it is. I have to dust my philosophy hat off a little bit. I’m a little rusty. But.



I, I do too. But it’s been nice just being able to read a teeny bit on the side and start to refresh myself. 



Yeah. No it's a good thing. That’s, That's uh, my uh, next uh, task when I finish pretending I’m a researcher. So, anyway it was great to meet you.  



Yeah, pleasure.



Thank you



Yeah.



Good luck



Thank you, take care.
