TRANSCRIBER NAME: Ryan Herrera-Murphy

Date: 17AUG20

Participant #: 265

Length of the Interview: 16:39



Interviewer: Welcome is it okay if I record this? 

Participant:yes



Interviewer: And what's your number ? 

Participant: 265

Interviewer: okay so i'm going to ask you a bunch of questions to start..and starting out is when did you start BUDS and is this your first BUDS experience? 

Participant: this is my first buds experience and i'm pretty sure i started in June (mumble) 

Interviewer:Did you start with this class? 

Participant:  yes 

Interviewer:Okay so you're one of the few that's been in this class congratulations that's pretty awesome. Okay now what about your background, how many siblings do you have and where are you in the birth order? like older sister, younger brother..



Participant: uhhh i have one older sister



Interviewer: Were your parents married, separated , divorced?	



Participant: uh separated when i was born 



Interviewer: when you were what 	



Participant: born



Interviewer: And then what's your relationship with them ? 

Participant: um my mom im really close with uhh i grew up with her my  dad he was there in the beginning of my life and slowly started to fade away  



Interviewer: okay 

Participant:that was kinda like back ta (mumble) does that make sense? 

Interviewer: yeah! I'm going to ask you if you had any life changing events prior to BUDS and whatever i mean by life changing is whatever you mean by life changing some people say nothing  some people give me 5 things.

Participant:mhm umm growing up with my mom i have had a couple of life changing events thats why i have this big scar on my arm that's because my step dad and my mom  got into and argument and i stepped in to defend her when i was like two years old 



Interviewer: alright



Participant:i feel like everyone changed 



Interviewer: Was that your dad or your step dad ? 

 

Participant: step dad



Interviewer: okay 

Participant: uhh(inaudible) first come to BUDS



Interviewer: Well how did that factor into your experience? How did you get that scar when you were trying to defend your mom? 



Participant: um it probably made me feel small and also big inna way  i dunno i just feel like just defending her made me realize that i don't like it when someone picks on people smaller than them . i guess if that makes sense I've always done that throughout my life i always defended my mom and sister like growing up especially like in school i didn't like really like bullies like that dudes who were just arrogant where it seemed like they were better than somebody else where they would like mess with little guys were as me I always had like a loud mouth so i would be like leave that person alone or like defend that person in fight because i dunno i just don't like when someone gets into (mumble) 

Interviewer: okay 

Participant: i think another

Interviewer: another and the other thing?  

Participant: uhhh i think in highschool I was really good at um they had like this little program for um like teenagers it was like a door to door salesman typa thing but like a scholarship program or whatever like you can go on trips and what not I was really good at it like selling things really good at being with people and conversing tryna like mike lil bit um whatcha called… repetition I was like sailor of the i mean 



Interviewer: Seller? 

Participant: salesman of the year and also like we had fun and stuff like that 

Interviewer: that's good what about your personality then has made you successful so far here

Participant: very uhh dark times i was pondering about a lot of things i noticed that in your survey it was one of those questions I always i love that when things are crappy I always like laugh about it or make a joke about it. 



Interviewer: that's an awesome personality trait 

Participant: yeea



Interviewer:everyone around you loves it too 



Participant: yeah like maybe like doing one of the hardest things and i'll maybe like make a joke about it or about somebody else and just like (mumble)



Interviewer: what in your background led you to becoming a SEAL did you know somebody were your parents in the military like how did you come to SEAL School? 



Participant: umm I was always obsessed with the military I asked my dad recently when was i first showing signs of it he told me ever since I was 4 years old  i liked the military i fell in love with WWII when i was in like elementary school like studying everything about it and i didn't really know what I wanted to do in the military but going with i wanted to do something honorable ya know ? I joined the navy and when I joined I had to pick a safe route because my mom told me I couldn't go into combat but I knew I wanted to be in the military. I told her about all the jobs I got selected to do. She was like what about this aircraft mechanic job? She was like that seems fine and I did that. I liked getting greasy and stuff doing a lot of work but I didn't like it. I was just like I can't do this for 30 years of my life. So i was like i always wanted to do something challenging and awesome and i knew the SEALs were out there and i was like i'm in the Navy i wanted to do something that was extremely extremely hard that not a lot of people get to do and if i'm going to do my time in the military i want to do something that i actually like serving that i've got scars from got like a you know like i did a good job 



Interviewer: yea



Participant: I didn have much to lose. I feel like that's what brought me here. The family-like oriented type of community everyone is looking out for each other and not looking out for themselves and being selfish. ummm



Interviewer: speaking of family um tell me about your childhood when you were little. Like how did your parents or your mom discipline you? Did she spank you, did she give you a time out, did she make you do push ups with holding toys?

Participant: uhh she spanked me a lot as a kid uh she like it was uhh she like put me in separate me timeouts kinda but she's changed. I know my dad did that a lot when I was younger. 



Interviewer: okay did you move around a lot when you were little 



Participant: yeah I actually did. 

Interviewer: Tell me about your teenage years. Were you in a sport or close with any group of kids doing something? 

Participant: I was always by myself but because I was by myself every group wanted me as a part of their group. I was always kinda doing my own thing. I always wanted to play sports growing up but my family never had money for it. 

Interviewer: yea



Participant: so we couldn't like afford like the gear that i needed but i did always play sports like football soccer im very competitive 



Interviewer: oh okay imagine that 



Participant: yeah 



Interviewer:.what did you do for the first 5 years of your life prior to BUDS? Like did you go to highschool or or straight to BUDS but it sounded like you did other things in the navy first. 



Participant: mhm from highschool graduated tried to get into the navy and at first they told me no because i had childhood asthma but i got waved for it and then i went to bootcamp went into the navy and then i got stationed in Hawaii for three years and then uhh i did that that was a lot of fun then i trained for this and then i got accepted 

Interviewer: So even when you were in Hawaii you knew you wanted to do this? 

Participant: mhm 



Interviewer: would you say that you make impulsive decisions? 

Participant:I would say 50/50 i do a lot of impulsive decisions i don't have any tattoos or anything like that don't smoke or drink but there are sometimes when i'm just like lets just do it im very spontaneous when i comes to things but i always like think about the pros and cons of things and make good decisions sometimes. 

Interviewer:what was the most challenging or just think of one day that just really sucked here where you thought that maybe this isn't for me what motivated you what motivated you to push through? 



Participant: I actually had two of those days one day I actually cried but the other day my worst evolution was um logs um it was like a very good grimy work out and i loved it but it was really hard the important was that it was fun though I think logs everytime we did logs 



Interviewer: you're not the only one to say that 



Participant: yea lol 



Interviewer: log logs 

Participant:mhm uhh when we did up and down the berm at the end of a log work out I would always think like I'd rather be in bed or id rather be doing something else. Then i realize you know I knew like two gentleman in the teams that like he would always tell me i could do it anybody could do and that makes sense like if chief could do it i could definitely do it like I would think about um all the people who had my back and supported me like i don't wanna let all these people down and i also thought like i don't wanna get rolled i wanna keep going I don't want to do any of this again. The second time was thursday of hell week we had our second nap and then we woke up and then i tried to get out of bed i tried to stand up and i immediately collapsed to the ground and i was like oh snap i tried to stand up again and I couldn't move my leg and then they were like hit the surf then we tried to hit the surf and i was just dragging my leg in the dirt and i hit the surf and they just mad us do it multiple times by that time i was like the only person back from the group so i was just legit mad and crying because like they're gonna notice it or they might drop me I wasn't thinking clearly cause you know it's like thursday so nobody like rolls no body but my emotions got i wasn't thinking straight then I hit the ice boat and my emotions got the best of me like i made it this far i really dont wanna get dropped or rolled because of this my friends were like that's no big deal we're gonna push you through this we got you and i was just like thanks man . And the instructors noticed me tryna run and i couldn't they're like you better get outta that boat and i would like try to run faster and faster but they didn tpull me so .



Interviewer: did you like finally snap awake or ? 



Participant:. Yeah by Friday that's when I started to get emotional like the majority of the day. I felt like I hit my wall but just kept going. 



Interviewer: what practices did you used to get through that like mental moral spiritual things or what did you think about besides you thought about all the people you made it through you could do it though about the people who supported you like did you say a prayer meditate anything else that you can think of?



Participant:.um everytime I ate I always prayed even still I always pray uhh help me do great and do good let this food nourish my body please let it take care of my body and give me the strength to keep pushing through and before we started anything i realized i'm always calm before the evolution and everybody is always like nervous or scared. I don't have a lot of events in my life. I've always been calm in stressful situations. That really helped me out i always think about something else or try to not have my heart race. Cause if they are nervous they're gonna make me nervous and if i'm nervous then i already lost.



Interviewer: yeah absolutely, were there any difficult situations that you had to make during training like turning in a classmate who was cheating or getting drunk what went through your mind as you made that decision. 



Participant: um i never really came across that because i tried to stay away from that. 



Interviewer: okay that's fine too how about what made you ultimately successful in completing this a lot of people quit or got rolled or whatever



Participant: i think  honestly i just appreciated how i grew up



Interviewer: you appreciate what?



Participant:how i grew up cause it was just really rough  growing up and I thought it was normal so I always like to talk about what happens you know its hard and it's physically demanding and everything but in my mind i don't feel like it gave me reason to actually walk up to that bell. I dunno I've faced a lot of challenges and everytime  time I face a challenge I'll just be like you know it's whatever, just move on learning a lesson just keep going. I'll never like sticking on it or letting it get the best of me..  



Interviewer: So let me ask the question in an opposite way so what do you think of the people that quit what they didn't have? 



Participant: I felt like um they didn't have confidence in themselves knowing that they were more than capable of doing it they just didn thave confidence in themselves and they let failure get the best of them. 



Interviewer: thanks helpful and then how has this experience changed you as a person. 

Participant: uhhh it definitely lets me know that i can do a lot of stuff without even thinking about it like um like these 14 mile runs and 5 and a half mile swim i didn't think i could do that and they were just like alright tomorrow we've got this swim going on and you're gonna do it and i just get into the water and do it until i have to stop. That changed my i dunno that's pretty much it. 



Interviewer: okay so what should i have asked you the navy has asked us to take all these interview to see what makes people successful at buds is there anything i should've asked you? Thank you for contributing to your success that I didn't ask for? 

Participant:umm probably like the personality about the class because depending on the class as a whole that's going to make the person feel comfortable or uncomfortable inna class cause that weighs heavy on a person's mind like ohh i don't fit in here or these people are alphas and i'm not an alpha.



Interviewer: i heard this was rough. Did you roll from another class? 



Participant: not this is my first class. 



Interviewer: but i've heard this is a tough class. 



Participant: in first phase we were like very cut throat towards each other and i didnt like it at first but i see why we did it now because we were trying to weed out the people who are mentally strong enough 



Interviewer:do you think it's changed now 



Participant: as far as us being friendly towards each other 



Interviewer: yea



Participant: yea! We're definitely friendly with each other. It's sorta crazy we still have the same kinda mindset. The third phase is when we became more of a family cosy type towards each other.
