TRANSCRIBER NAME: Gordon Livermore

Date: 23AUG20

Participant #: 345 (345_ 2020.02.10_08.47_01.MP3)

Length of the Interview: 17:31

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Alex Dietrich

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide



And then I’ll just confirm with you it’s ok if we record?

Yes

Great and then would you uh state your participant ID number?

345

Ok great uh so when did you start your BUDS class?

Uh 334

And uh so you hold 

Yes

(Unintelligible) or is this the same class you started in

No I-I started with 334 now I’m in 339

Ok so um has this this BUDS experience been your only BUDS experience? 

Yes



Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Um so can we talk about your family? Uh do you have any brothers or sisters?



I have two older sisters

Ok so you’re the third 

I’m the youngest yes

The youngest of three ok so, your sister uh your sister and then are your parents married, separated, divorced?

My parents are divorced, young age I don’t really remember

Divorced (unintelligible) are they remarried or..?

Uh no uh they’re both single

(unintelligible) and what’s your relationship like with them 

Uh it’s been uh they came down um this past weekend to visit me which is nice

And so good relationship with both of those separated parents and then good relationship with your sisters

Yea yea definitely my sisters and I are really close





SIO: Ok great, um any life changing events that’ve happened before coming to BUDS?



Um just in in general or?

Yea so you have high school, have you gone through college

A little bit of college

Ok uh anything that stands out as being sort of a 

Um 

Pivotal experience?

Yea uh I had I had a friend of mine die um during a swim practice um drowned uh that I don’t know that that messed me up for like a few days um but I had like a lot of close friends and family kinda reach out um 

And you were there in the pool 

Yea yup um 

I’m sorry

Uh and I think that kinda just um after that I became a EMT um I kinda just I never wanted to be like in a position where I didn’t really know what to do

Mm

So yea kinda just sought out every means of um I guess just being able to have the skillset to help in any situation 

And that was in high school?

Yes

Um so again I’m sorry that must’ve been really hard

I just feel for the family more than anything



SIO: Um so how have those experiences factored into your experience at BUD/S?



Um *pause* (unintelligible) question um 

As of (unintelligible)

Like kinda just like looking out for the other guys um makes things easier um just when you’re kinda not focused on yourself, you don’t really think about like how much pain you’re in um I think that’s something that will be (unintelligible) cause me and my friend uh pulled him out of the pool and uh like after that I spent a lot of time um like checking in on my friends like checking in on the family uh and all that and it kinda looking uh looking at like other people’s pain and like trying to help with that it takes away from your pain you’re feeling so that helped a lot 

Yea



SIO: How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?



Um.. it worked I guess uh

*laughs*

I don’t know

So are you familiar with personality traits uh things like introversion, extroversion 

Yea

Openness, Agreeableness

Ok

Conscientiousness 

Um 

What are the traits that are unique to you that you think

I don’t know I guess I’m not like I’m not crazy outgoing um but I’m not crazy introverted uh...I’m not really sure

You’re just kinda a well rounded individual?

I-I’d like to think so um I don’t know, I just had a good sense of humor about the stuff we’re going through here and I try not to take all of it too seriously 

Ok

Um I think that helped 



SIO: Is there anything in your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community, do you have any SEALs as family or friends, do you have a military family?



Uh a little bit my dad was in the Navy but he got drafted uh in Vietnam 

Ok

Um but I have two cousins who’re brothers uh and they were officers in the teams 

Ok 

Uh just growing up like they were the uh they were just like the biggest role models like and everyone in the family looked up to them and they were just always happy 

And they were your cousins you said

Yea tha-my cousins, they were brothers

Ok 

Um and uh got like pictures of like like a family vacation and they’re just like throwing me in the air into a pool 

Ok

Um yea they were uh yea they were just uh role models for me and um I-I just wanted to kinda be the type of man that they are 

Yea and have they been able to mentor you or give you..

A-a little bit

Advice..

I check in with them on uh on my progress is going, they’ll yea they’ll throw in some tidbits of advice 







SIO: Ok, tell me a little bit about your childhood.  For example, how were you disciplined as a child?  How would you describe your parents parenting style? (spanking, timeouts, withholding toys, etc.).



Yea um my parents had different ways of disciplining um my mom she yelled uh a little bit and uh I don’t know I’ve probably only heard my dad raise his voice once in my life uh it was kinda worse with my dad because if you screwed up uh wasn’t mad he was just disappointed 

Ok

And that was way worse

Yea 

Um yea so 

Any spanking (unintelligible) 

Um 

Spoons..

I got spanked maybe like once or twice that’s about it

Um taking away toys or privileges..

Yea

Taking away a car..

Yea there was definitely um yea definitely like threats of like taking away a phone or car or like uh you know you can’t go do this on the weekend or whatever, it wasn’t anything crazy um

Ok did you move around throughout your childhood or your teenage years? 

Yea um I stayed in so I was born and raised in Santa Barbara um and we always stayed there but we definitely moved some houses um it’s like um when my parents got divorced my dad stayed at the house he built and then my mom moved um to another house and then my dad had to sell the house um so I-I’ve moved houses a lot 

Ok and did that require you to move schools or social groups? 

No no not really 



SIO: Ok um tell me about your teenage years?  For example, did you move around?  Did you participate in a team sport or an activity with a tight knit community? So like band or theater?



Um uh I was on sports teams my whole life bu- so I played water polo and swam in high school 

Ok

Uh I was uh Boy Scouts uh from a super young age till I was like 17 

Did you do Eagle Scout

Yea, yea I got my Eagle Scout um what else, I was I was a beach lifeguard for 6 years, um that was awesome loved that job yea



SIO: What have you done in the last 5 years prior to BUDS? So you mentioned some college



Yea I-I did a year in Colorado at UC Boulder um 

And then what?

Then I did a year and a half at city college back home, Santa Barbara City College, uh where I was doing uh just I got my Associates in the only degree that didn’t really require Math which was Communications um um

So you have two and a half years of credits?

Yes 

Ok and then why not finish the degree?

Um I I didn’t really like school and I-from a young age I’ve always known that I wanted to do this so I just decided to send it, um did jiu-jitsu um um

Extra-curriculars..

Worked a lot 

Worked..what sort of jobs?

Uh lifeguarding the whole time

Ok, *pause* would you consider yourself impulsive? For example, do you have any tattoos that you got on a whim or..

No yea I wouldn’t consider my-

Speeding tickets?

I have one speeding ticket um I don’t ever want to repeat that um

It’s expensive 

Yea

*laughs*

Um yea no tattoos I no I-I think things through for sure

No big purchases uh

Nothing on a whim no

Everything’s premeditated 

Pretty good at saving, investing yea nothing crazy 



SIO: Ok so reflecting on BUDS, what was the most challenging component of BUD/S?



Uh 

This could be a day, this could be a theme?

For me it was logs, I hated logs

Ok

Um 

What was it about them?

They just they just sucked

*laughs*

Um yea lot of lot of pain

Ok so what so motivat..what motivated you to push through it right? So you knew it was gonna suck before you did them

Yup

But you got through them, what was it that..?

I just knew that um if I just stopped doing logs (unintelligible) that would be like I quit and I knew I wasn’t going to quit um uh something uh one of my friends who was a team guy uh said to me before I came out here, we had lunch, uh he’s like no matter how much it sucks or how much it hurts just know like in the end it’s all worth it, so I kinda just kept that in mind um just kinda dealt with the pain then again I also just looked out for the other guys in the boat crew

Ok

And that helped

So you had sort of this internal perspective of pain is temporary 

Yup definitely

Ok and then you had an external these guys are depending on me 

Yea yea

Um and then uh not wanting to let the group down I guess

Big time yea 

And then so that’s you not wanting to disappoint them or let them down, did you feel supported by them?

Uh this uh a lot of guys definitely, I-I’ve been under a log or a boat with a lot of great guys um but I’ve also had really some turds

Yea

Um 

So you’d say that most of this motivation really came from the internal source

Yea I’d say so



SIO: Ok did you have any practices (physical, mental, spiritual)that you used to push through the challenges? So some guys say they have a prayer or a mantra or or a visualization exercise



Yea uh this was during hell week it really came out it was kinda like our class thing um sorry if I swear

Yea 

Alright uh it was just I have this video from our hell week um one of the instructors took of us just crawling around in the water on like Thursday morning uh chanting “It doesn’t fucking matter” so it was like our thing was like it doesn’t matter what you do to us or like how much it sucks, I-I’m not going anywhere

Yea ok so this was sort of a group mantra 

Yea a little bit

That developed….uh “it doesn’t fucking matter” mhm..(unintelligible) 



SIO: So when you made a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision? And is there a decision you really struggled with? So for example running classmates out or turning in a cheating classmate were you ever confronted with like a hard choice



*pause* I don’t think so..I...think the only hard choice would be quitting and I wasn’t ever going to do that

Ok 

Um

What about like evals (unintelligible)?

Um yea I mean that was never fun um but I I don’t think I ever wrote down anything I wouldn’t say to that person’s face um so it wasn’t really a hard decision um I don’t know maybe going to medical when I was screwed up cause I was really worried about getting rolled or dropped um but I know I couldn’t really continue...that sucked 

So what helped you go-actually go, you went?

Yea um just uh talking to the other guys and uh seeing what they thought, get a lot of different opinions um and uh just kinda in-the-and doing what I do and what I had to do (unintelligible)



SIO: Why do you think you were successful in getting as far as you did?

Um think I-I think I had a really good friend group um a lot of close friends here uh then family uh yea family friends I just I knew if I-I didn’t go all the way, I’d just disappoint them and I didn’t want to do that



SIO: Yea ok what about those that didn’t make it? What was it in them that failed



Um I’m not sure I-I think there’s hundreds of different reasons like some of the fleet returnees that were getting out in a few months um they had that option um I don’t know I didn-I didn’t have a plan B to this and that was that was very intentional

Ok

Um I didn’t want to have an alternative cause some guys, there was some dude who had like a Masters um i don’t know uh

Something to pursue

Yes something crazy and he uh he quit cause he had a backup plan um he knew he'd be fine if he didn’t make it um

So you’d say they weren’t all in?

Yea



SIO: BONUS QUESTION - Ok, has this experience changed you as a person?



Yea definitely 

Oh

Yea uh I don’t know if it’s made me a harder person or a softer person um

Huh

But it-I definitely don’t really like the ocean as much as I used to um

Ok

And I think um it's definitely made me mo-more confident in I guess my abilities just you  know and I can go through a lot of..shit

Ok

Come out the other end ok

Confidence ok is there anything else that I haven’t asked about that you think is relative to this discussion of um.. Mental grit, heartiness, resilience, mindfulness…

No I-I don’t think so (unintelligible)

Ok so I’ll hit stop...stop
