TRANSCRIBER NAME: Isaac Bengel

Date: 8/11/2020

Participant #: 381

Length of the Interview: 15:38

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):



So is it ok if I record 



Yes Ma’am



And what’s your participant number?



Uhh 381



And you were 66?



I was



Ok, perfect



I was originally 69 (unintelligible)



69, alright…Ok, soooo…this…looks like you have a split personality…so uh, easy question to start with. When did you start BUDS, and uh what was your first class



I started BUDS June 10th 2019 with class…uh three...338 



Ok and then when did you kinda get rolled how did you get in class three…



I got rolled for OC-5 in second phase with 338



Ok um…and then um…had you ever tried BUDS before? Is this your first time?



This is my first time.



Uh how many siblings do you have?



I have one older sister, she’s 28



Ok and how much older than you is that 



I’m 25 so shes three years older.



Ok…What about your parent situation? Do you have a two parent household?



No my parents were high school sweethearts and have been married for 35 years.



Ok so they were together the whole time?



The whole time



Um are you close with your parents?



I actually talk to them everyday…probably the closest family in the United States



Hahahaha…Um…How do you think that has factored into who you are as a person?



Oh it definitely has. I had the best childhood growing up. We did everything as a family. LSU football games on Saturday, church on Sunday morning, watch the Saints and the Cowboys on Sunday afternoon



And did you grow up in one place? Did you move around a lot?



Yep yeah I grew up in the same house



Ok. Where did you grow up?



Lafayette, Louisiana



Ok, um, anything life changing like in your life that happened prior coming to BUDS?



Yeah so I was playing professional baseball in uh Colombia South America



Ok



And got ss...ate some bad food and got really sick and uh had to go to the hospital and ever since then I’ve lost sight and ever since then it was the last time I picked up a baseball



Oh wow



Um and then I just remember coming home from there and I always, I always wanted to become 

a SEAL. I thought baseball was my purpose, I wanted to go Major Leagues. 



Yeah. 



No jobs, whole nine yards. I remember my dad picked me up from Louis uh International Airport in New Orleans and I said I’m done with baseball, I wanna be a Navy SEAL



Ok, so what was the timeframe?



That was in um November of 2017



Ok…So what were you doing prior to that?



Finishing school



Ok



I had um four classes left so it took the next semesters to do that online, and then I started 

training for 6 months



Uh huh



And that’s when they shipped me out in February of 2019



Ok. And then um how do you think that experience of kinda trying to play professional baseball had shaped your experience here?



It absolutely had…I had…I felt like I had the mental, baseballs all mental, its physical but mostly a game of nowadays what kind of mentality you have. And I feel like…you know…you have three, if you hit three (intelligible) you’re a hall of famer, so failure is part of the game.



Yeah



So I feel like that helped me…constantly…constantly learning how to fail, and accepting failure, and always trying to succeed and learning how to succeed as well shaped me well to come to BUDS

Yeah…um…could you describe your personality and how you think that contributed to your experience here.



Very, very high energetic

Ok



Um sometimes emotional roller coaster but for the most part very positive um love. I have too much energy.



Haha. Was that a good thing here?



Yes



Um in what way? Can you give me an example?



Um for staying positive like always finding humor



Yeah



In uh the worst situations possible in Hell Week, getting gassed on the island in third phase just always, you know, having that high energy to motivate the guys around me 



Yeah…what are the um what made you, you kinda wanna be a SEAL?



Um I’ve always loved training for anything I love having a purpose and a goal, and baseball was just not meeting that, and of course reading the books, and you know, watching the movies, and doing more research, and actually understanding the training, and making that commitment, is the most purpose I have ever, I’ve ever had in my life



Yeah anybody military family at all?



Yeah my dad was in the Army for four years, but



Uh-huh, was that prior to you being around



That was when he was right out of high school, yes ma’am



Any friends that are military?



(intelligible)



So um tell me a little bit more about your childhood. Um like what was discipline kinda like in your household



Um, you know, grew up in the south yes ma’am no ma’am, got spankings until I was like 10 or 12, you know



Yeah



Um, aaaa my parents were, uhh I wouldn’t say they were like strict ya know, but as far as they kinda like let me figure out



Yeah



Figure out whats right whats wrong



Ummm, what about, I think I asked this, but did you move around a lot during your childhood? 



No.



Always stay around Louisiana? 



Same house, 2217 (unintelligible) Road. 



Hahaha



Hahaha. Louisiana.



We’ll take that outta there, hahaha, do you like Louisiana? 



Love it. 



Yeah.



Love it. I planned to live there when I retire, don’t know when that will be but…



Go back there



Yeah, as soon as possible. 



Umm..what about your teenage years, tell me a little bit about them, tell me about baseball



I went to a private school, catholic school, um in high school, and played football and baseball and um excelled in baseball, not too good at football, really excelled in baseball, um and just you know every Saturday morning before the LSU games my dad would go hit, you know work on my craft, something like that um. Yeah just you know, normal high school athletic life, 



Yeah



Inner lifestyle. That’s it, yeah



Um what about any, you talked a little bit about um kinda uh uh playing professional baseball a little bit. Anything else in the last 5 years, you said you were finishing college



Yes I went to the University of Arizona



Ok 



Played baseball there, and then uh…finished my last year at Troy University, which is where I got my degree from. 



Umm… and you did that after you came back into?



I was taking online classes and giving baseball lessons during that time period



Ok. And where is, where is Troy University?



Alabama.



Ok. So, you taught baseball, did that, anything else that you did that you were kinda like were you im going, what were you doing to prep? 



Uhh.. running, swimming, lifting



Mkk. Anything you were doing mentally to prepare?



Uhhh yeah, I listen to this app called HeadSpace.



Okay.

I’ve always done it during my baseball career. I absolutely love it. But, other than that, that was it. And then obviously the workouts, which were mentally challenging. 



Yeah. Were you working out with other people



Yeah so one of my buddies from back home, uh he’s a fire, a fire fighter, um loved the training aspect of it



Yeah



So we just got after it, kinda held each other accountable 



Mkk. Um. Would you consider yourself impulsive at all?



To a certain extent. I mean everyone is impulsive



So could you describe some of your impulsive behaviors?



Uhhh…I don’t know. As far as the training, or just in life?



In life



Can you give me an example?



Umm like do you have tattoos?



Oh, no tattoos. 



No tattoos, any like, made any big purchases on a whim?



Uh I bought a dirt bike *snaps fingers* just like that 



Do you have, like have you ridden bikes before?



Yes growing up



Ok. Um what about lots of speeding tickets, anything like that?



Uh, yes I have about 4 to 5 speeding tickets



Were they in a short time frame or were they over a year or so



Literally innnn probably two months (inaudible) all the sudden 



Be careful, haha



That was 2017, haha



Hahaha, wow, hahaha um um what was, what do you think the most challenging component of 

BUDS was



Ah well I got rolled in um OC-5, uh, that was the first time, I have never felt anything and I 

swear on my lung nothing in BUDS compared to OC-5 and I failed it three times in a row



Oh



Three attempts then I got rolled



And what’s OC-5?



OC-5 is um buddy um ditch and dawn your gear underwater



Ok, ok



I had three little procedures messed up and that was the best thing that has ever happened to me 

before 



Well why is that



Because I absolutely love this class it kinda humbled me a little bit I mean I was passing the 

former (intelligible) I got rolled and it was kinda getting to love these guys, I wouldn’t change it for the world 



Yeah so do you um, what kind of motivated you to kinda have that experience?



Um, well one you’re here for a goal and I’ll do whatever it takes to accomplish a goal, and two its just, you know, I feel like, when, again, playing baseball learning how to fail, it’s just a part of it, part of the process.



Um, when you got rolled into this class you said it was good, good to know them as people, was there was there support from the group? Talk to me a little bit about the group dynamic 



Yeah so half this class was 338



Ok 



If you haven’t noticed, theres probably like 20 of us, and this class had like 59 that are in 338 so having that part of group of friends come in and is just kinda you know 59 originals coming in is a small group so its very easy to mesh 



Yeah. Um any practices whether they are physical, mental, spiritual that you utilized to get through in general or any specific challenging moments here?



Um, I feel like when we got gassed on the island that was a mental stay in it, stay in the fight, stay in the fight, other than that it was just you take something and you just do it 



Now um on that was that like kind of as a group you were doing that or was that more in your own head that you were kinda saying stay in it



That was that was something I feel like that is all individual 



Yeah



I mean as a group, we got grouped, we got gassed as a group as a class, but as far as individual I feel like everybody had their own mental fight 



To get through?



It was the worst 



Yeah. 



It was the worst evolution in BUDS



Yeah



By far



Haha, it’s over, haha





It was simulated death



Um, was there any time you had to make a difficult decision during training at BUDS like whether it was for you personally a moral or ethical decision or seeing someone else making the wrong decision and then you had to decide do I say something or not



None that I can recall. I know one of my good friends quit (inaudible) in first phase, he was rosining the log and I tried to get him not to quit but he ended up quitting but that’s like the only



Yeah. 



But other than that



Umm, so nobody kind of taking a short cut or anything like that. Ummm.. Why do you think you were successful during BUDS?



Childhood, umm….



What about that specifically?



Growing up just always being rough or playing backyard football or baseball, ya know just 

always training, always getting outdoors, outdoors is huge. And then, uhh, another thing is just the support of my, if you have support that will literally get you through 99% of BUDS. And also just uhh having an edge, I don’t know I feel like just my own personal mentality, I just wanted to succeed. 



Yeah. Umm… Anything you notice that was different about those who didn’t make it and more specifically those that quit? 



Yes. I feel like, not for everybody, but the majority, when I see people quit I think they were in it for the wrong reasons



What do you mean by that?



You know, the the glamor of being a SEAL I don’t think they really actually wanted to do the work that the job entails 



Um. How did this experience change you as a person? 



Um it it really the more you train the more you realize you one you either are actually doing it for the glamorous reasons or you’re actually doing it for the job. I feel like the more I trained the more I actually wanted the job and what its gonna take 



Anything else you that you think I should’ve asked you that I didn’t ask you 



I I think the best question on that is what I believe it was uh what you think I used I think in childhood 



Yeah



Like the years of like 0 to 12, 10 or 12 most kids either grow up to play video games or watching way too much TV or outdoors with their dad and doing that type of stuff 



Yeah and do you think that people that are outside 



I really do believe 



That it will set their children up for success



Yes, you have to



Haha when they beat each other to death 



Haha yeah encourage that, encourage that



Okay, well that’s it



Thanks, Ma’am, thank you



Congratulations



Thank you





































		12
