TRANSCRIBER NAME: Andrew Malick

Date: 12AUG2020

Participant #: 81 switched to 358 (81_358_2020.02.10_10.56_01.mp3)

Length of the Interview: 16:16

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Alex Deitrich

Participant (Code in black): 



Interview Guide



Is it ok if I record? 

It is OK.

Great. And can you tell me your participant ID and sort of explain why you have two numbers here? 



81 and 358. 81 was given to me in class 338 after I got rolled. I was given a number 358, in 339. 

Awesome. Thanks for clarifying that. So when did you start BUD/S with that original class? 

As in Coronado, or when did I start like the whole-? 

Yeah. When was your- When did you start training? 

Uh, We got our class checked into into Coronado in April of 2018. 

OK.

That was my first class with 337 actually. 

And is this your first BUD/S experience? 

It is. 



Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Ok great. So I'm going to ask you about your family. Are you- do you have siblings? 



I have one sister.

Ok, older or younger? 

Uh, younger, she's two years younger than me. 

And are you parents married, seperated, divorced? 

Divorced

When did that happen? 

Six or seven years ago. 

So you were older. You were in highschool? 

About, I’d say I was a freshman or sophomore in high school. 

OK, How was that experience? Was it impactful? 

When they finally got divorced, It wasn't a surprise. We knew it was coming, wasn't easy at first, but, gotta get used to it. 

How's your relationship, with your parents now? 

Decent. Decent now. 

With each? Or...? 

Yeah, decent with both. 

OK. And your relationship with your sister? 

Good. I try to stay in touch with as much as I can. 

SIO: Yeah. Were there any other life changing events that happened in your life prior to BUD/S?

Uh, not really. I mean, we tried to try to join the Navy when I was 18 to come here, and my eyesight was too poor, so I moved out of the house. It seemed like the right time. Stars aligned at that point. So when I was 18 and kept pursuing this goal, after I got LASIK eye surgery. 

OK. So how long did that take you, to get the surgery and?

I got the surgery immediately after I was disqualified for the program. And then I moved to Texas two months after that. And after that it took about two years to get contracted out. 

And what did you do during that time?

I worked with a friend who moved down there, started his own company. So he started going door to door sales with him. Moved to corporate security after that. 

Interesting. So, do you, is there anything else? And the other major events? 

Life changing? Not particularly. 

Any college? 

Oh, yes. I went to college for about a year and a half. And, uh, just I knew I was going to come here. My mom encouraged college because she wanted me to get my degree before I- if I ended up doing this why not make it college prior to this? I couldn't study, I was just burnt out from it. I wasn't having a good time or it didn't some fun and exciting. And I didn't really have a major that I just committed to. So I just decided I'm just going to enlist now... do that later.



So how do any of these experiences factor into your experience at BUD/S? 

Prior experiences? If I went at 18 I don't know if I would've made it. I was immature. Learned a lot. I had a lot of life experience, in those two years. Screwed up, became way more independent. Just uh, devolved... 



 

SIO: How do you think your personality affected your progression through BUD/S?

...Uh, not one of the higher physical performances in the class, but boys, uh... Find out. Always had a personality that I feel like is just trying to help out. Trying to kind of help the team. I always had a teammate attitude. So I think that helps as well as just being a decent person to everyone, regardless of who they are, how they treat you. So I feel like that has developed me through that's definitely helped develop me through this pipeline and essentially just kind of building that team work. 



SIO: OK. So, you mentioned this desire to pursue this community. Do you have any family or friends that were SEALs? Or how did you- what really gave you that spark, that inspiration?



When I was in high school, I had a lot of friends that joined the Marine Corps. I wasn't quite sure what I wanted to do with my life, yet. The military was always kind of in the back of my head. And when they all started going to the Marine Corps, I uh, that was initially the plan. I was- Marines were always like the superhero. Like, "Those guys were the toughest dudes and studs. Started working out with them. Uh, did some of their PTs with their leaders and stuff. I started, uh, training in my own time getting into shape. But that's kind of a phyical low, but I got into shape and I started becoming one of the fastest runners. They didn't feel like I was being challenged. So I wanted to try something more wishful- Marine recon. And uh, I was pursuing that for a while. And our friend in my hometown said, "Oh, I'm saying for the SEALs". I mean there was this old retired SEAL guy that trains, and "you should meet him." And I met him, and this kind of attitude and outlook on life, and how humble he was made me switch. The job isn't that much different, but I really like the way this guy acts, I want to be that guy.

And did he serve as- the roll of of mentoring-. 

Yes. He was actually from the start of the company down in Texas. I moved down there and kind of always... Focused... like he was my boss, but he also had that unique understanding of what he would focus on this. 



SIO: So lets talk a little more about your childhood, how we disciplined as a child? Like what was their parenting style? Did they spank you, was it free-range parenting? 

It kind of depended. I was someone that had... Physical punishment was ever like... if I really. As a younger child, that was like a standing, but it was never like a... as I got older. It's just like, okay, well, you're not going out with friends. You don't get your phone or... Privaledges were- Stuff that definitely as a kind, sucked, but nothing that was like, crazy. 

OK. And did you move around throughout your childhood? 

Uh, I moved... 

Cause your parents separated. 

My dad, my dad and well, I stayed in the same house. So I, uh, till I came here.

OK. So you didn’t even have to move schools, or? 

The only time I moved schools was when I moved from one city to another. I was about... about 6th grade. So right when I- one moved from when I was in sixth grade from a place 60 miles away, and that was totally fine.



Uh, so, tell me about your teenage years. Did you play a team sport or an activity with a tight-knit community? 

I played hockey since I was about eight years old. Just on a competitive level- so Ice Hockey and that's pretty much it. That's pretty much it. I thought about getting involved in other sports, but hockey was my focus. 

How many years? 

The last time I played on a team was senior year of high school. So 8 years, to what, 18? Maybe 10 years of competitive play. 

OK, so already talked about it a bit, but five years before BUD/S, so you had two years working? 

Two, roughly two years, yes. 

Two years working, then a year and a half of college? 

Yes. During that year and a half, I was getting really focused on...

Ok and before that was high school? 

Yes. A lot of that, pretty much most of that time I was focused on. 

Yeah. Yeah you were, training, for BUD/S, OK. 



SIO And then would you consider yourself impulsive? 

To a certain extent, depends on what what it is. 

OK, so, for example, like, do you have any tattoos that you got on a whim? 

No tattoos. I'm not planning on ever getting tattoos. 

Speeding tickets? 

Eeeee, I have one. I have one speeding ticket but, I.... 

OK. Do you have, like, big spending, did you see a car and buy it? 

I don't buy expensive cars, but I have a tendency to collect. Like, not collect cars. But like I have a- I'm a big car guy so I'll like, ahhh see  like this unique or weird car and be like, "I really want to buy that thing because it's really unique and rare." 

You don't- you're not impulsive and...? 

I just, I can't, I won't bankrupt myself. It's like, it's like, in Princeton, I bought a ill-advised.. It's an ill advised decision but I found a car that my dad and I have been talking about our project for. 

Cool. 

So I found one, I found, I've been in a Fontana. 

So you researched it? 

And I think a week as I drove up there. Yeah, I do. I know-

It's more of a hobby. 

It is. It's more of a hobby, but it's kind of a obsession I suppose. 

So we're really trying to get at decision, right. You make analytical decisions where you think them through and do research and plan, and meticulous thinking. 

It's very meticulous. It's... I mean, if it gets impulsive in that I know a lot about it, but if something pops up like the stars are like, okay, so this is like this is what I've been looking for for a while and I'll see it 20 minutes later and I can buy it but like It's usually a case decision.... 



SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? So, this could be like a day, or an event... or, uhhh, some guys say, like, "logs", or "water". 

I don't know if I can really narrow it down to a specific evolution. All of it's difficult. It's getting cold. It's definitely a mental challenge. But if there were no rules, I think the most challenging part is to... Always, always keep your self-confidence up. Never let that nagging thought of am I doing good for it? "Am I... am I doing well enough for the team?" to not creep in, even if you're doing perfectly fine. That was something I always get in my head is "am I hurting people?" I never came to the conclusion that I was always, I was always thinking about that because I didn't want to hold anyone back, or be a liability. So that was always kind of a treat on my mind.

So when those thoughts were creeping in, or when you got rolled, and you kinda said like "ohhh, it like, do all this over again". How did you- what motivated you to push through that challenge? 

Oh, the dedication to wanting to be here, I guess. I mean... Sure. I mean, I know I'm not one of the.... Division one athletes in the class, but uh... it really boils down to how much you want it, how committed you are to being here. Nothing else matters. If you wanted to do- well for most guys it's you want to do- how badly do you want your job, how badly do you want it? So it's really just boils down to your self-confidence and self... Your desire i guess to be part of and willing to serve this community. So I know it's not going to be- it's going to there's going to be harder times, that what were put through here, so there's never going to get easier. You kind of have to accept that its our job to get through this. And that's going to be way easier than the....





SIO: Did you have any practices, like physical, mental, spiritual, that you used to pursue the challenges?

A lot of self talk. 

Yeah? What did it sound like? Did you have any mantras?

Uh, no. It wasn't a really matras, I never even really about training. I would just kind of talk to myself. It took one mind off, whatever was really happening, and essentially forgot about everything that was going on. And like, I always thought about, like what I was, "oh, my car's broken down." What I to do to it this weekend, I thought through- like I said, I need to work on this part, work on that. So I was kinda, I always kinda mentally just, especially during the more challenging "not this" evolutions, took my mind out of it and put it someplace else. So it's like something that happens, "Oh, wow yeah, training." 

Uh, this is really interesting cause some guys will say that they, instead had developed this intense focus. Right, like, this is where I am, this is what I'm doing. But you actually, removed yourself. 

Yeah. and it depends. So like they were- in the evolution that required focus, by, for instance, in third phase, when were doing IADs, I'd say that it's definitely more of a,  focus mode, but if it was something like a two and a half mile swim that was like extremely long. I would just, start thinking about other things and just completely forget about the swimming portion so, that autopilot, I feel like that helped, had they talked about how difficult... 



SIO: Uh, when you made a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision? Uh, and is there a decision that you really struggled with at BUD/S. 



Difficult decisions? Such as? 

For example, running classmates out or turning in a cheating classmate or the decision to go to medical, even though, you know, you might get rolled. 

That was a difficult decision was definitely medical, I got rolled in second base. It's okay, especially after I was well, the first time those nagging me on my head but like, "Oh I might get dropped for this.". 

So why did you do it? 

I knew if I had continued, it probably would have been extremely dangerous to my health if I hadn't gone. I could've, essentially like, like extreme risk for ...
