TRANSCRIBER NAME: Robert Briggs	

Date: 10AUG2020

Participant #: Not Specified (2020.03.04_04.58_01.mp3)

Length of the Interview: 17:09

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide



Okay, so I have a series of questions that are somewhat open ended, but somewhat closed, so it should be pretty easy to answer them. Uh, We got about 15 minutes, so uh 

Okay

...hopefully we can make it all the way through.

Ya

Uh, so when did you start BUD/S?

2008

2008?

Yes, ...I… my first attempt.

Uh, so this is not your first?

No this is my second time through. 

When did you start this attempt?

This one was in February, sorry uh, August of 2018

August of 2018?

Uh, 2019. 

Oh, 2019? So did you start with 339?

Uh, 338. 



Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Okay, uhm, How many siblings do you have?

I have a sister.

A sister? Younger or older?

Younger

What was your parental situation growing up?

Uhm, mother, a biological mother and then a ,uh, stepfather who adopted us. 

So were your parents, your biological parents, married? Divorced?

No

No?

No they, uh, they never wedded.

What was your relationship, so do you have a relationship with both your mother and biological father?

Yes, I didn’t meet my biological father until I was 25.

 How is your relationship with your mom?

Great

Let me go back to this first question. So you started your first BUD/s Class was 2008 and this is your second? Or have you done...had other

Technically would 338 and 339 be two separate ones? 

I don’t know. So, but between so in 2008?

I quit.

You quit?

Yes

And then not again until last year?

Yes

So you’re one of the older?

I am. 

That’s got to make it tougher?

It did

Physically?

And mentally as well (chuckles).













SIO: SO what life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/s?

So, prior to this time, I guess, inbetween, or more before the first one?

Uhm, either uh, either way I guess.

Uhm, nothing significant for the first one which is why I didn’t have enough experience and I quit, and then inbetween 2008 and 2000...now, went to the fleet and did about 9 years.    

And that just made you decide you wanted to…

I knew I wanted to come back, and, uh, unfortunately it was a long road so I guess that in its… trying to get here over a decade that was a major obstacle. 



SIO: So, How did those experiences factor into, or that experience factor into your experience now?

Uhm, made it infinitely easier. At least on the mental side of it. Physically the time, you know, it’s a little more difficult. 

Yeah, I think , I could, I could have done this when I was twenty I don’t know, no way I could do it at my age now. Or maybe not even at 25.

You never know, you could talk to a navy recruiter. 

Oh, I’m former army.

Thank you for your service, by the way.

Thank you for yours. I uh, If I had known all the things about the Navy I know now, I probably would have joined the navy. A lot more exciting. 



SIO: Uhm, How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

I’m a hard worker and I am a team player. And I do, I do, I am more on the introverted side but... I think that allowed me to not necessarily, maybe uh, not need as much external validation as I did when I was younger. 



SIO: So, Describe your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community and so what made you want to do it, and some of the examples they have here are do you have any SEALs as family or friends or do you have any military family or friends? 

Hmm, My father was British SAS. 

biological father?

Stepfather

Stepfather?

Yeah...and uh that introverted side of me has always, I’ve always longed for a community. 

Are you enlisted or officer?

I’m Enlisted

Enlisted.



SIO: So, Tell me a little bit about your childhood.  So were you, specifically, how were you disciplined as a child? Like spanking, grounding? 

Yes, physically.

Physically?

Yes...I’m glad I was. 

I am too. Of course not at the time thought. 

Oh of course, absolutely

Were you anything else, like timeouts or things taken away?

Yes, absolutely everything...everyway under the sun. They did a good job of it. 



SIO: Did you move a lot?Uhm During your childhood or teen years?

I would say yes, mainly because most people have one or two places, but I have like five or six. 

Like in the same area or a series?

I would say the same area, like cities bordering the same city. 

So it wasn’t like moving from Japan to Germany to Mexico to Canada to…

No, no yeah it was yeah it was the relative same place you sleep.  



  So when you were a teenager, Did you participate in team sports or other activities.

I did, I did. Uh Soccer...Football...baseball...then I did some individual, oh waterpolo as well for team. And Then I did swimming

Any other kind of team activities?

No



SIO: What have you done in the last five years prior to coming to BUD/s? You’ve been out in the fleet?

Yeah, I was in the civilian sector for a little bit of it as well, break in service. 

I’m sorry...oh a break in service?

Yeah, I had a two year break in service.

So, did you so you were in the navy you had a break in service and then did you come back in specifically to do this?

Yes 

So you’ve been back in for like a year

Yeah this this active duty time here, yes

What did uhm, what did you do during your break in service?

I went to school full time and I did a multitude of customer service jobs including personal training. 

Did you finish your degree?

I did not, no

What were you working on?

Uhm a bachelors in kinesiology. 

 Would you consider yourself impulsive?  

No...Not anymore. I was when I was young. 

SIO: Do you have any Tattoos?

I do not, I do not.

That’s supposed to be an example of impulsivity. I think maybe historically, maybe it was.

I can see why.

Yeah I just I don’t, I don’t think of it that way now. 

Right yeah

It’s more of a everybody does it seemingly. 

Yeah



SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? Hardest day, hardest event? 

Does it have to be a specific event or a day or can it be just like a theme.

It can just be in general.

Uhm, the hardest part was being, having to realize being who you thought you were...you’re not. You’re gonna have to work all the time on that so having to kind of self reflect, you know, realize your short comings and grow from those experiences are what makes you.

So would you say like that you’re not going to succeed at everything?

Absolutely. 

And I think that’s what I hear you saying, I think.

Yes, yeah.

Recognizing you are going to fail.

Yeah and in ways you don’t expect, I mean you can anticipate I mean for me, 10 years, I thought long and hard about this every single day and I expected some failures and those didn’t bother me but I didn’t expect the failures during the less difficult parts of BUD/s.  



SIO: What motivated to push through? 

Desperation. I desperately wanted to be here, I was going to do anything it took to stay

Did you feel that you were supported by the group?

Yes, up until the last month, yeah. 



SIO: What practices (physical, mental, spiritual) did you utilize to push through the challenges?

I had a very good support system. 	

But not like, uhh, prayer or meditation or anything?

No, I would… I’m (unintelligible) I guess you could say I, I’m, I believe a man if you want to be a good person you have to be a man of your word. If you make a commitment you stick to it. So I guess in a way that was my spiritual thing the way I perceived it.   



SIO: So, When you made a difficult decision during training, what went through your mind as you made that decision? Is there a specific decision you struggled with at BUD/S and the examples they give are, they’re listed here, are you know deciding to run a classmate out, or turn in someone who’s cheating

Yeah, so more applicable to the latter, uhm, calling people out for not contributing, I would say that my father always told me that bad things happen when good men stand by and do nothing. So I guess, always being honest uhm, even, even when um I may want to go along with it uhm, doing the right thing when no one is looking, doing the right thing even…

Even when what?

Even when it might be the more difficult route, understanding it was for the better. 

SIO: Is there a particular example of turning someone in? Is that you want to share, or?

Just not being afraid call your, your brothers out to make sure they are all on the same standard as everybody else. That’s a difficult one to surmise. 

Huh?

That’s a difficult one to surmise on paper. 

Oh, I’m sure. 



SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

Uhm, ‘cause I always follow through with my commitments. 



SIO: Did you notice anything different about the people that did not make it?  Something different between the folks that were going to make it and those that didn’t?

No. 

No?

No.



SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person? If it did

I am less confident than I was before

Less confident?

Yeah...that’s not necessarily a bad thing. 

(chuckles) No. 

Is there anything else that I, that I should have asked you? That helped you or hurt you or that I didn’t ask you. 

No

Well that’s it 

Awesome, thank you. 

Thank you, and uhm...
