TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Taylor

Date: 1/30/2022

Participant #: 653

Interviewer (Code in blue): Deirdre

Participant (Code in black): #653



Okay. Can I ask you what your number is please? 



653. 



Okay. Thank you. And do you mind if I record no one and I have two recorders just once for a backup in case something happens to one. Um, what phase did you leave?



Uh, it was actually, I was pulled out right before first day started. 



Okay. So what class were you going to be in? 



Oh, it was originally 349 and ended up in three, five. 



Okay. And then, so how many weeks ago did you actually get pulled out? 



Uh, it was, uh, middle of August. So, so it was a while ago. 



Okay. So tell me a little bit about your childhood. Like how many kids in your family or your mom and dad still together. Did you move around a lot? 



I mean, I know you told me a little bit already, but if you could say it. Yeah. I moved from New Jersey to Pennsylvania, then Pennsylvania and North Carolina. So we've only moved about three times or two or three times.



Um, I have one sister, my parents were still together, so pretty good family life. 



And you played sports? 



Uh, yes. I played ice hockey all the way from elementary school up to end of high school and college. 



Thank you. Um, if you had to describe your personality in three traits, what would you say? 



Uh, honest, hardworking and diligent.



Wow. A lot of people struggle with that. You got it right off the top. That's awesome. You know, yourself, I guess. Great. Um, what did you do in the last five years prior to buds? 



Um, graduated high school, worked with my father for a bit and construction and contracting in North Carolina, North Carolina. Um, went to college for two years.



Got my associates. I went to central Piedmont community college in North Carolina. And from there I just realized that's what I wanted to do. So I started training for the past years. 



Thank you for coming here. Okay. And now did you play ice hockey there at the, at your college? 



No, not at central Piedmont.



I did play for UMCC, which is the, uh, like the university of North Carolina. 



Charlotte? 



Yeah. 



Okay, excellent. So, um, any experiences in your life before buds that you would say were, um, Uh, shaping experiences or things that really changed the way you looked at things or thoughts? 



Uh, I think playing ice hockey was probably the biggest one.



Just the, um, the team aspect as well as kind of just that drive to win. Um, I went to traveled all over the country, went up to Boston different tournament's in kind of that, um, Factor of someone being nervous, but being able to deal with stress was a really big part of helping me grow. 



Thank you. So how did those experiences impact your training at all?



Um, like I said, it just really helped with, uh, understanding how to deal with stress. There was definitely a lot of stressful things to deal with when we came here for training, um, And just being able to kinda like calm down and focused on whatever task we had at hand. 



Perfect. Um, what describe your background that led you to joining the Navy?



Um, I have no family in the military. Uh, my grandpa tried to join when he was younger and he couldn't because he was colorblind. Um, that was kind of for me, I just saw him really wanting to go into the military and that kind of stuck with me and, and, uh, I even, my mom has a photo. She shows me every once in a while.



Eight years old, running old battleship, and I'm like throwing a little salute. She's like, oh, it was meant to be so, so it was kind of just what I've been wanting to do for awhile. 



Why the Navy? I just asked that cause I was army so 



Uh, just being seals. 



Awesome. Okay. What motivates you on a daily basis? Would you say? 



Um, I think knowing that I didn't waste the day was, was something that really kind of sticks. Um, even now, I just, I don't want to, even if I'm waiting to go do something, I just don't want to waste a debt. 



Good. Good for you. Um, could you then kind of break down for me? What was your experience at buds? Like what happened for the most part? 



I enjoyed it. Um, I never really had a problem with any physical parts. Uh, for me, what happened to me was I got injured and lost feeling in my left leg. So got pulled for that. It's still dealing with the problem, but I mean, for buds, for the most part, I was really happy to be there.



Really a big team aspect and met a lot of really good dudes. 



So 349, you got pulled. 



What, like how many days in, I was going to class up with 349, and first phase started having this problem with my leg was going to go into 350, and we were going to a run and I just kept falling. 



Oh, wow. And then, okay, so then did you just decide, I need to get healthy or did you get medically? 



I spoke to one of the instructors kind of explained what was going on. I was sent to buds medical, and, and they were afraid I was going to cause a permanent nerve damage in my left leg. So they didn't know exactly what was happening.



So they pulled me out and now I'm kind of here. They told me I had to pull you out of training. So I'd get a bunch of cat scans, uh, just had procedure recently. 



Do you think that I hope that helped us? 



No, I'm on a med board right now. Um, they're deciding my fate whether or not to keep me in the Navy. So like household chores, like if I try to like do stuff, I'll bend over all, fall over.



I can't put my socks on. I have to like lay on my side to do it. Yeah. 



Wow. Oh, that's, that's certainly interesting. Okay. Um, was there a time that since you've been here. Where you had a difficult decision during training and, uh, what went through your mind as you made that decision? And if you have an example



I think the most difficult was just trying to, uh, the obstacle course was something that obviously when you get here, you really can't train for, and, and I don't mind Heights, but climbing up the cargo net and not having any type of.



Uh, safety precautions other than hitting the ground pretty fast, uh, was definitely someone that was kind of big for me. It was just kind of throwing myself into whatever they said, Hey, you have to go do this. And I think that was pretty, uh, interesting.



Thank you. Um, is there anything that you would've done differently coming to buds?



Probably would have ran more. I don't mind running, but I definitely probably would have ran more and. Some of the things we do where you, you wouldn't really expect, uh, when you came here, I mean like one of the first days you do like 3000 jumping jacks or some ridiculous number. And, and if someone told me that I should be doing jumping jacks at home was definitely not, not one of them.



There was never, um, you can never be too prepared. So I mean, practice everything, just get kind of like Jack of all trades, master of none kind of thing. Um, but other than that, I think that's kind of like the biggest would just be.



Fixed and you became perfect again. 



Would you ever consider coming to buds again? 



Yeah, a hundred percent. Um, yeah, as soon as, I mean, as soon as I get fixed up, whether I get pulled out of the Navy or not, I definitely gonna continuously train. I tried to come back here, uh, apply to SFS over in the army. So it's definitely a choice I'm finding I'm making great.



Wait, what practices did you use? A physical, mental, spiritual to push through any challenges? 



I think the best one for me was just kind of focusing on my breathing. Uh, that was really a big, big helper, no matter what we were doing, if I just kind of focused on my breathing, that would take me out of whatever we were doing, it would've sucked.



And, uh, I just, I count in my head every four seconds I exhale and hold my breath and then four seconds. And I kind of just called me down and got me into a mental state of like, ed. You're fine. It's gonna, it's gonna end at some point. 



So. And then how do you think this experience changed you as a person and how if so?



Uh, I feel a lot more confident in general. Uh, I think it's definitely changed me for sure. For the better, I think, um, anything I do now, I don't think it's going to be nearly as hard as it was before. I feel like I've probably done more of the harder things that I probably do in my life. So I think it's definitely given me a drive that, uh, on that you can get anywhere.



Okay. And then, uh, what events did you struggle with the most event that showed the most? 



Uh, like physically, mentally, 



Actually either one. 



I think the hardest would be just, just the day in and day out grind of it all was definitely a, uh, obviously you get weekends off, but I mean, it's only two days and you're kind of laying there waiting dreading the next day to come. Uh, yeah, definitely that the day in day out grind, nothing in itself that we've done was very hard. If you did it by yourself or did that one thing in a day, but all that accumulating over time is definitely what makes it a challenge. 



And then do you think your class liked you? 



I hope so. 



Okay. That's fair enough. What do you think is different about the people who make it through.



It's definitely a definitely a mental thing. I was lucky enough to see someone bodies secure hell week, and I got to speak to them literally right afterwards. And it's just, they have a look in their eyes kind of doubt. 



Okay. Okay. Thanks. And then, so we're trying to put this together. This, uh, paper is about, you know, being resilient and if you read a paper.



What buds was like, what would you want to know? Like, what do you wish you would have known a year ago?



I wouldn't know. In a year ago, probably just you never to prepare. I think that's, I think that's the thing that people might come in and as well as I think there's a lot of things that, uh, are over exaggerated, there are a lot of things that you dealt throw you into and they kind of make you sit there and wait, and think about what you're about.



And, uh, you sit there and you kind of like freak out and then way people that quit before it even starts. And it's just because of that, that anticipation, because there's so much stuff online nowadays that you see what might happen. And, uh, it gets the guys and I it's definitely, uh, don't over hype, anything don't over-exaggerate anything you won't kill ya.



Okay. That's a good thing to put in there. Okay. Well, thank you so much. See, that was quick, right. And, uh, I'll take you back upstairs and you can finish this. Did you already do this? Okay. All right then, um,
