TRANSCRIBER NAME: Quinn Barber
Date: 16AUG20
Participant #: 13
Length of the Interview: 10:50


Interviewer: So, is it okay if I record you and what’s your id?


Participant: Yes, ID 13.


Interviewer: Number 13 okay great. So, is this your uhm when did you start BUDS and is this your first experience?


Participant: I started with class 338 and uhm that was back around July and then got rolled after during Hell Week. And 339 now. First time at BUD/s. 


Interviewer: And how just a (lil) little (abouke) about your background, how many siblings do you have and are they older younger boys girls?


Participant: I have one older brother.


Interviewer: Okay, were your parents married separated or divorced? 


Participant: Married.


Interviewer: And what was your relationship, what is your relationship with them?


Participant: I have a great relationship with my parents and brother.


Interviewer: Great. And what life changing events happened to you prior to BUD/S? And what life changing means is anything you think it means, it could be nothing it could be ya had one thing it could be ya had three things?


Participant: Uhm, I don’t know.  I wouldn’t say I had any like major events that were super life changing it was more of uh just kind of a gradual … 


Interviewer: Okay, yeah. 


Participant: shift in who I developed to be.


Interviewer: Great, uhm. How do you think your personality contributed to your success in BUD/S?


Participant: Uh, I think, helped me just like more of a serious guy, uhm kept things professional when I need to, but I was just kinda able to keep some perspective and laugh about things at times. It kinda worked as a balance for me. 


Interviewer: And then tell me about your background that even wanted, that made you wanna be a SEAL. Like did you have anybody that you knew that was a seal? Was your family military? Did you read a book?


Participant: Uh, I actually met CDR Ledford at college, uh he was getting his PHD when I was 
there as an undergrad.


Interviewer: At Princeton?


Participant:Yes.


Interviewer: Okay.


Participant: And then, he was like the first person I ever talked to about uhm being a SEAL. I, I had like that idea of military, like some special operations, wasn’t sure. And he just kinda put a face to it and then that just slowly developed while I was in college. And then afterwards, uhm, decided to come out here and pursue this. 


Interviewer: Okay, so tell me about, a little bit about your childhood like how were you disciplined? Like did your parents spank you, make you run, or do pushups or withhold toys or timeouts? What?
 
Participant: Yeah the, the, or they’re biggest way would be to just take things away from us...


Interviewer: Okay.


Participant: Or just kinda, I, I was I wasn’t a super rebellious kid by any means. Uh, my older brother kinda took the brunt of that, so I just sat back and… 


Interviewer: I had that too.


Participant: Saw that. (laughs) 


Interviewer: And did you move around in, in college or in high school? Sorry, ...


Participant: No


Interviewer: In your teenage years?


Participant: No, I grew up in New Jersey and stayed there all the way through college, so comin’ out here was the first time I left. 


Interviewer: Wow, okay. And then tell me about your teenage years. Did you ha, were you on a team sport in...


Participant: Yep.


Interviewer: high school, college?


Participant: Yeah so I played soccer in high scool and college. So, basically grew up playing sports and was always, always playin’.


Interviewer: So what position do you play in soccer?


Participant: Changed a lot, I ended as a forward. 


Interviewer: Okay.


Participant: Uhm, that’s where like I finished played, but played defense my first couple years so. 


Interviewer: Were you recruited?


Participant: Uh, yes. 


Interviewer: I’m just interested my son plays soccer. 


Participant: Yeah so


Interviewer: So (laughing) It’s definitely all consuming. What’s your favorite team and you premier league guy or do you follow.


Participant: Yeah, I like liverpool. 


Interviewer: Tis.


Participant: I definitely haven’t been able to follow it much since 


Interviewer: Of course.


Participant: Since the past year so.


Interviewer: They’re doing very well.


Participant: Yeah.


Interviewer: If ya haven’t seen it.


Participant: I haven’t (laughing), no. 


Interviewer: He’s a liverpool fan, he plays for liverpool America.


Participant: Oh yeah?


Interviewer: And he’s obsessed with it. So they’re way ahead in the premier league, but that’s way off track.


Participant: Yeah (laughing).


Interviewer: So sorry (laughing). So, what have you done in the last five years of your life prior to BUD/S? Just went to college?


Participant: I was in ...


Interviewer: or did you?


Participant: Yeah, so I was in college and then put in the uh officer candidate school package. So that is like a year long process in itself to come out here. There’s a screener, so after college I put in my application and I coached for a year while I was going through this process to come out here. 


Interviewer: At what level?


Participant: Uh, it was a youth club, so we were, we had teams between like U-10 and U-18.


Interviewer: Okay, would you consider yourself impulsive? Like, do you have any tattoos or do you make?


Participant: Definitely not.


Interviewer: Okay. And then what? Think about the most challenging day that you’ve had at BUD/S or your hardest thing? What motivated you to push through and did you feel like you were supported by your team?


Participant: Definitely supported by the team. Uhm, everybody’s gonna have their, their days. I wouldn’t say one that stands out to me too much, but just like I, I have a lot of memories and just like the guys keeping you like in your perspective and just realizing where you are and being lucky to have such great people around you. 


Interviewer: So what was the hardest day? Or what are you thinking of? 


Participant: Uhm.


Interviewer: Like Hell Week?


Participant: Yeah, Hell Week’s just, just a grind. There’s nothing that stands out as like this one thing was impossible.


Interviewer: Okay.


Participant: But you just have your, your moments that are just like you just kinda get through em.   


Interviewer: And what practices did you have to help your push through the challenges? Like emotional, spiritual, mental? 


Participant: Uh.


Interviewer: Did you, can you think of anything?


Participant: It was just, just like a men, a mentality to just keep going knowing that everything is going to end eventually. Uhm, definitely seeing like just going through whatever we’re doing just take care of that one step at a time. 


Interviewer: That’s helpful. So did you have any difficult decisions that you had to make at BUD/S? Like, uhm, running classmates out, turning in someone who’s cheating? And if you did, what does, did you struggle with that and what helped you get over that? And if you didn’t that’s fine too. 


Participant: Yeah we definitely had a couple decisions like that. Uh, in terms of class leadership amongst the officers and the senior enlisted guys we have. Uhm, and they always turned into, it wasn’t just me making the decision or just our OIC making the decision it was always like a group discussion about it, uhm, amongst those that have the leadership roles and we always talked it through, so. 


Interviewer: Can you give me an example?


Participant: Uhm, so one example is just a guy breaking curfew on our first weekend.


Interviewer: Mhm.


Participant: Like going out drinking and comes back and he’s, he’s the only guy that comes back late. So, talked about it with the class to decide are you gonna turn him into the staff or are you gonna handle it within the class. I’ve had a few, a few things like that come up.


Interviewer: Yep, no, sure. Uhm, What did you think about specifically when you made that decision? I’m not talking about the group, I’m talking about you personally, like, did you think about, uhm, what that would do to him? The consequences or did you think about you as a team?


Participant: Uh, you definitely have to. We thought about both fors, uh, I thought about both forsure. Cause if, if you turn this one guy in it’s likely that you’re gonna put him in a really bad spot where if he has a history of other mistakes he’s gonna get dropped from the program likely. So, you definitely take that into consideration. But, uhm, what we kind of saw as the more important thing is what, what the rest of the class is doing and the guys who are doing the right thing. You need to be able to stand up for the guys who are gonna do the right thing and, and get rid of the people who are gonna be toxic to the class.


Interviewer: Mhm.


Participant: So. 


Interviewer: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?


Participant: Uhm, (laughing), I don’t know. It’s, it’s a tough question. 


Interviewer: Well let me ask it this way, what do you think is different about the people who didn’t make it?


Participant: (Unintelligible)I don’t know, maybe they just lost sight of what they were here for. Uhm. Personally, like it was, it was a huge decision for me to come out here and like my decision was made before I was out here, so. It (unintelligible), it’s just kinda like a simple way of explaining it, but that was really just how I felt about it. 


Interviewer: Mhm. How do you think this whole decision changed you as a person?


Participant: Like to come out here or?


Interviewer: The BUD/S experience.


Participant: It’s definitely given me great perspective on different people, uhm. Just, a lot of different experiences that you go through. I think the, one of the bigger lessons that I’ve learned though is to just, you never know who, who you’re dealing with and kind of the deeper levels of, of people and getting to know them better and giving guys a second chance and being surprised who they, who they are who you thought they were. 


Interviewer: So the Army, er the Army, I’m Army, the Navy has asked us to come in and do this to try to figure out before people get here what makes someone successful at BUD/s?


Participant: Right.


 Interviewer: Is there anything that I shoulda asked you that would help us in this research endeavor? No?


Participant: I don’t know (Laughing). I guess that’s why you’re doing this today, right?


Interviewer: (Laughing) kay. Well sometimes, yeah, sometimes people will say yeah well I’ve noticed ya know that all the impulsive people quit or whatever. Is there anything you think we missed and that we should’ve asked? Like, oh if you ask this question that’ll separate the people who make it.


Participant: No. I, I’ve just tried, I’ve just kinda realized that I have no idea who’s, who’s gonna be, you never know who’s not gonna make it, but I think there are some guys that just you can probably bet on by being like well-thought out and like, yeah I guess less impulsive (unintelligible) the guys that had to invest a lot more to get out here. 


Interviewer: Okay.


Participant: That seems to be, uh, the ones who are just still here. 


Interviewer: Okay thank you.