TRANSCRIBER NAME: Nico Sbrocco

Date: 20 April 2020

Participant #: 118

Interviewer: Dr. Deirdre Dixon

Interviewer (Code in Blue)

Participant (Code in black)



Interviewer: OK, so what’s your number, and is it OK if I record?

#118: Yes. 118.

Interviewer: So, 118? OK. So thank you for agreeing to do this. I appreciate that, im gonna just hold these. Uh, first of all, can you tell me, like, how many siblings you have? And, what’s the birth order? And, if they’re brothers, sisters?

#118: I have one younger brother.

Interviewer: Alright. And then, what, if you think about your life experiences, what might you describe as your crucible and life shaping experience you had? 

#118: I guess one is probably that I came through BUD/S a while ago with class 304 and quit, so that threw a wrench in the life plan for quite a while.

Interviewer: OK. 

#118: That’s probably the biggest one. 

Interviewer: And so, how did that impact your experience that you had with this one?

#118: Uh, it helped because I knew a little bit of what to expect in first phase, but beyond that it didn’t really help much. 

Interviewer: Yeah.

#118: And I knew how much I knew I didn’t want to go back to the fleet, so that helped motivate me. 

Interviewer: And then, do you think your personality contributed to you getting through BUD/S? 

#118: Uh, I think so, I was, I mean, I had six years to grow up and mature within the navy which helped a lot. So, I think that helped, perspective wise.

Interviewer: So what made you want to come back?

#118: Immediately after I quit, I really wanted to come back for a while and then I lost interest, but towards the end of my, my re-enlistment was coming up, and it was something that I never really didn’t want to do. I always really wanted to do it, and then I just got motivated again and decided it was now or never.

Interviewer: So you re-enlisted to do this?

#118: I’m on like an extension right now, but after SQT I will have to re-enlist. 

Interviewer: OK. Great. And then describe your background that led you to even wanting to be a SEAL. Like, for example, so tell me about your childhood, and how would you describe your parents’ parenting style. For example, if they had to discipline you, what did they do? 

#118: Uhm, they would, uh, relatively little, like time outs, uhm then I got older and they made me write sentences so many times...

Interviewer: OK.

#118: If I did something wrong. That’s pretty much it. 

Interviewer: And then, how about your teenage years. Did you move around? Were you in sports?

#118: Uh, I swam from when I was little all the way through college. I lived in the same house, my parents still live in the same house. 

Interviewer: Sometimes swimming can be very individual, sometimes it can be team oriented. What would you say your swimming experience was?

#118: Uh, once it got to college it was very team oriented, but prior to that it was far more individual.

Interviewer: OK. OK. So what have you done in the last 5 years of your life prior to BUD/S? And then, so you sound like you were in the Navy. And would you consider yourself impulsive, like some people have lots of tattoos, or do you binge drink? Do you have an impulsive tendency, do you say?

#118: Probably, yes. 

Interviewer: Why do you say that? What makes you say that?

#118: The tattoos, well, all of those were planned out. Uh, but, if I decide I want to go buy something or go do something, I’ll usually just go buy it or do it. 

Interviewer: And then, what about, did you get an enlistment bonus? To sign up for BUD/S?

#118: When I first came in, there was a bonus if I had made it through, and then the job I got after I quit, there was a bonus for that, and there will be a bonus when I re-enlist eventually, but I didn’t get anything to come back. 

Interviewer: OK. So did the bonus come into play as far as when you decided you were going to re-enlist? 

#118: No.

Interviewer: No? OK. What do you think motivates you on a daily basis?

#118: Uh, I mean in BUD/S it was like the guys in the class. I wanted to like *undecipherable*.

Interviewer: And what particular way? Not wanting to let people down? Or like?

#118: Yeah, like not wanting to let people down. Not wanting to fail in front of them. Sometimes within my control *undecipherable*.

Interviewer: What would you say is the most challenging component of BUD/S? So think about your hardest day. What helped you make...what was challenging for you?

#118: Uh, I don’t think there was any one day, it was just the total grind of all of it. 

Interviewer: Uh, huh.

#118: It kinda starts to wear on you, especially going to San Clemente. But, it was never anything like the first time through. Where, like the day I quit, I was like “I can’t do this anymore.” I never felt that this time. There were definitely hard days, but nothing crazy.

Interviewer: OK. And then, what motivated you on those hard days? What made you motivated to push through? Like what were you thinking about?

#118: Uh, how much it sucked to tell people I quit the first time and not wanting to do that again. 

Interviewer: OK. Did you feel like you were supported by the group?

#118: Like the class?

Interviewer: Yes.

#118: Yes.

Interviewer: And then, what practices did you use to help you get through? Did you do meditation? Anything mental, spiritual, or physical to get through all your challenges?

#118: Uh, I like, on long runs or rucks where it hurts like bad, I would just count in my head, or like day dream during the swims, or stuff like that. But other than that, not really.

Interviewer: OK. When you made a difficult decision during training, what went through your mind as you made that decision? Any decision that you could have made. 

#118: Uh…

Interviewer: Can you think of anything? 

#118: Not really. There were times where I thought I was feeling pretty shitty and we had to do things that most guys don’t wanna do, and it was, just, we have to do it. 

Interviewer: Uh huh.

#118: Other than that, not really.

Interviewer: So why overall, do you think you were successful this time?

#118: Uh, better physically prepared for it, and mentally I think. For sure had a better *undecipherable*.

Interviewer: So before you had come straight from bootcamp?

#118: Yes. I finished college, and then I came in right about seven months after graduation. 

Interviewer: Did you know anything different about those that didn’t make it? Like can you describe what made you make it and not somebody else? 

#118: Some of them were surprising, like some guys that you thought were gonna make it. And other ones that were just, especially in first phase weren't physically strong enough. Just some of the younger kids. 

Interviewer: And then, how would you say this experience changed you as a person? 

#118: Uh, gives you like a perspective on how bad things can be. And, how easy almost everything we do is.

Interviewer: Anything else I should have asked you that you think would be important to know for people coming in?

#118: Uh, not really, no. 

Interviewer: OK.

#118: Make sure you’re good at running in the sand, I guess. 

Interviewer: So what’s interesting is you’re only my second guy, and both of you had come back. I thought that there was no way you could even come back. 

#118: There’s a lot more in this class than normal. 

Interviewer: Really? That’s awesome. OK. Thanks so much, I really appreciate it.





		1
