TRANSCRIBER NAME: Loftus

Date: 23AUG 2020

Participant #: N/A

Length of the Interview: 13:55

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch

Participant (Code in black): N/A



Hey so uh this is uh relatively short interview about 15 minutes. Questions are open ended but ya know if you can be somewhat concise then we should get through all of it, but if we dont its not a big deal. 



Um so when did you start BUD/S?

I was actually class 330.

330? When, do you know, when was that?

That was in February 2018.

So this isn’t your first, is this your second?

This is actually my third, I got injured in Hellweek in 330 and got rolled and got surgery than came back after over a year then in 337 made it through Hellweek but my foot was broken up so I got rolled two classes after Hellweek.

So you sort of got rolled twice?

Yeah.

And how were you injured in 2018 in 330?

I uh had a labral tear in my hip and also damage to the (inaudible)

Oh ok. Alright so you joined with 339?

Yeah.

So How many siblings do you have?

I have two. Brother and sister.

Uh whats the ordering? Where are you?

Oldest

Youre the oldest? 

Then sister.

So self, sister, brother?

Yeah

Uh what was your parental situation growing up?

Uh two parents, still married

Mom Dad?

Yep

And you have, do you have, what's your relationship with them?

(inaudible 1:59-2:11)

What, if any, life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/S?

Uh I was in the Marine Corps uh I was an infantry officer, I deployed twice. Two deployments to Iraq. 

No Afghanistan?

(inaudible 2:35-2:43)

How did uh that experience, being a marine officer uh effect your or factor into your experience here?

Uh I think it gave me a little bit of maturity, uh I had my feet underneath me in the military, and it already kind of groomed me to deal with hardship. And then i think it also for my deployments gave me a sense of purpose. Got to work with seasoned SEAL team guys in both deployments.

So uh when you left the Marines and uh joined the navy did you change rank?

I was a captain in the Marine Corps and  Lieutenant in the Navy.

So thats what the guy running this research project did right he started in the uh Marine Corps and then came here. How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

I think I’m pretty good at dealing with failure.I think that kind of helped me I didnt, mostly medically predicated issued that I had, but I think that being able to uh persevere. 

So when you were injured what did you do in the meantime while you were injured?

I worked at the CTT, the Combat Training Tank, just at the pool.

Ok

Uh I worked for the BUD/S orientation the indoctrination stuff.

Um so describe your background um that led you to pursuing becoming a part of the SEAL community? I mean is there anything other than you mentioned you worked with SEALs overseas I guess and you have a military background. Do you have any SEALs as family members or friends? 

I do not.

Any military family?

I do uh my father, and my grandfather. 

Where they in uh

My father was in the Army, retired Colonel. And my grandfather was in the Air Force Reserve.

So is that what motivated you to join the military to begin with?

Yeah I think so it was kind of what I uh all I knew as a kid. So I think I wanted to do something in the military, and then special forces spoke to me. (inaudible 5:43-5:49) so I ended up being a Marine infantry officer. 

Alright so some questions about your childhood. Um how were you disciplined as a child?

Uh I think varying times throughout my childhood my dads temperament uh my dad was more physical when I was younger and then he kind of cooled off when I was older. 

So you were spanked and then what grounded? 

Perfect yeah

Did you move a lot as a child?

Yeah.

Yes you were an Army Brat right so. What branch was your father in? I know he was in Army but what uh?

Corps of Engineers

Engineers? How disappointed is he that you're in the Navy? Uh so in your teen years did you participate in sports uh or other team kinds of events?

I did uh I played basketball, uh I wrestled for a bit earlier on then I raced motorcross.

Motorcross? 

Yeah

Any other kind of team activities? Like chess club or

Ah no

So the last five years have you, you’ve been in the Marines for the last five years and you just switched to the Navy or?

(inaudible 8:05-8:10)

How long ago did you switch to the Navy?

So it was February 2018.

Would you consider yourself impulsive?

No

Do you have any tattoos?

No

Did you go to college? To ROTC or?

No I did uh Marine Corps Officer Candidate School. 

After you finished your college degree?

No I did it while I was in college. 

While you were in college?

(inaudible 8:53-8:57)

Whats your degree in?

Engineering Technology Education

What was the most challenging component of BUD/S either a day or an event or?

Hellweek.

Huh? 

Hellweek. 

Hellweek? 

What motivated you to push through it?

Uh a lot of different things I guess if it boils down to one, one big thing its the uh the ability to make a significant impact in the lives of people overseas and I kind of experienced that with my first deployment with the SEALs. That was very fulfilling. 

What uh practices did you uh use to push through challenges like physical, mental, spiritual, what techniques?

Uh I think the endstate visualization.

The goal?

Yeah

Visualizing the goal, achieving the goal?

Yeah

When you made a difficult decision uh during training, what went through your mind as you made that decision? Uh were there any decisions, specific decisions, that you remember having to make. Like examples they list are running a classmate out or uh cheating, turning in a cheater?

Yeah uh running a buddy a couple times running a classmate out of the boat. Leveraging that against like class cohesiveness. Respective implications to the class’ unity.

So I guess to some extent you have a lot of expirience that others here don’t having been an officer a Marine officer, uh with making those kinds of decisions. Thinking about unit cohecion versus hurting someone.

Uh why do you think you were successful at completing buds?

I think it boils down to one thing I think uh the uh maturity and perserverence, resiliency. That was probably predominatley cultivated while in the Marine Corps. 

Did you notice anything about anythything different, characteristic wise, uh about the those who didn't make it through versus those who did?

I havent really thought about that uh not really honestly. 

Has this experience, and if so how has this experience changed you as a person?

I think it has just augmented my ability to perservere. 

Is there anything else that I should have asked you about that I haven't that helped you or hurt you through this that I didn’t ask you?

I don’t think so.

Ok thats it.

Thank you Sir.

Thank you.
