TRANSCRIBER NAME: Dan McDonald 

Date: 17 August 2020

Participant #: 347, 106

Length of the Interview: 10:28

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Dixon

Participant (Code in black):



Okay, and what’s your participant IDs? 

347 and 106.



When did you start BUDs and is this your first class? 

This is my fourth class. I started December of 2018 with uh 335. 



Okay a little about your background. How many siblings do you have and what’s their birth order like younger sister, older brother?

I have an older brother who is 30 and a younger brother who is 8. 



Were you parents married, separated, divorced? 

Uh, they were never married. 



And then what is your relationship to them?

Uh, we have a very good relationship. With both of them and they are friendly with each other. Most of the time hahah



Do you have any life changing events that happened to you prior to BUDs and whatever you think life changing is that’s what I’m asking about? If you didn’t have anything that’s fine too. 

Um, when I was younger I almost died in a white water rafting trip. Ever since then, I felt like I needed to do something more. 



How old were you?

I was 10. I think. 



Okay. But you still obviously like the water.

Yeah, it was a very cold, traumatic experience. Made me appreciate cold water hahah



How did this experience factor into your experience at BUD/S?

Um, it just showed there’s worse things that can happen to you. Like thinking about my little brother going through stuff like that as well. I don’t know I feel like I need to be like a protector I guess. 



How do you think your personality contributed to your getting through BUD/S? Anything specific that’d you say oh yeah this is 

Yeah, I’m just kind of like, uh, a little bit more careless I guess. 



And did that help you?

Yes, certainly. 



Why? 

I was sort of able to push things away like what I thought about negative stuff



Okay that helps.

(unintelligible) 



Tell me about your background that even led you to become a SEAL.  Like do you know anyone in the military? Do you know anyone that was a SEAL?

Yeah, my grandpa was in Vietnam. Uh, and my brother is Army Special Forces. He had a lot of influence on me. 



But you didn’t want to do the exact same thing he did?

No, he didn’t like it. He just got out. He was never good in the water. I was a swimmer and I was pretty good in the water. So, I wanted to do that.

 

So tell me about how your parents disciplined you as a child?  Did they spank you? Give you a timeout? Do they make you run? What was the most?

I got spanked really early, but it was mostly like at this point in the game you know it would get to me. I never wanted to disappoint them. 



Did you move around a lot as a kid?

No.



Tell me about your teenage years?   Did you have team sports there that you did or with a tight knit community?

Yeah, I was on the swim team and the golf team. I didn’t really fit in with those groups because I wasn’t really as smart as them I guess. Those were kind of the smarter sports like versus like football or wrestling. But uh I really enjoyed being around those people so.

And that was in high school? College?

High school. I didn’t go to college. 



You haven’t yet

Yes. 



What did you do in the last 5 years of your life prior to BUD/S?  Like did you go straight from high school?

Nope, I was working a lot. My dad owns a contracting company. He builds houses and stores and stuff. I got a lot of experience from that. I knew if I joined at 18 I wasn’t mature enough ya know. I don’t think I would have made it then. 



That’s mature. Would you consider yourself impulsive like do you have tattoos or do you make impulsive decisions? Do you think? 

 Uh sometimes. I have my moments, yeah. I have a couple tattoos. 



Can you give me an example? 

I guess its mostly like buying stuff. 



What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? Think about your hardest day, what motivated you to get through and do you think the team helped you get through? 

My worst moment was Hell Week. Monday night and I just thought about my family and I didn’t want to let them down or let myself down. That was really all I thought about. Being a good role model to my little brother. 



Did you have any physical, mental, spiritual practices that helped you get through?

No, I mean I had ideas but once you really hit that point that you want to quit those don’t really matter. 



What helped you get over an idea? I mean I would think everyone in this program wants to quit at sometime but then the question is what do you do to get through that

Just talk to yourself. That's pretty much it. Just positive mental attitude. 



Did you have any difficult decisions that you had to make during BUDS? Like, you, a classmate cheating or whatever and what went through your mind? If you had something. 

We had a guy that was lying to the instructors about uh I guess he had drugs in his truck. Is what it turned out to be. We had a car search and he didn’t like tell them that he had a vehicle. He was in my boat crew and he was a really good guy we thought and we had to turn him in and he got dropped. That was pretty tough to see.



What went through your mind when you were trying to decide if you were going to turn him in or not?

I thought about like how hard he put out and um like what he did for me during hell week. Then I thought about working with him in the future and decisions like that and uh 





And jeopardizing others

Yup. It was pretty selfish of him. 



If you had to think one thing that made you successful what do you think it was?

Like in the pipeline or? 



No, just here at BUDs. 

Um, uh, I dont know. 



Let me ask you a different way. What separates you from the people that quit. What did the people that quit, what did they not have?  

I guess confidence maybe. Or overthinking. It's not that hard. 



Okay. I don't know. I beg to differ. How do you think this experience changed you as a person? Are you the same guy who when you graduate? You are the same guy but what has changed since December 2018? 

I’m more disciplined definitely. But I have uh a more careless attitude I guess. Its weird like. 



Or maybe. Youre saying careless. Do you mean that you don't take it seriously? 

Yes, I don't take things as seriously, but I am definitely more disciplined. It sounds contradictory but I don't know. 



Is there anything else that I should have asked you that will help the Navy better pick people who will be successful in BUDS? 

I don’t think so. No. 



Okay. Awesome.
