TRANSCRIBER NAME: Robert Briggs

Date:19 AUG 2020

Participant #: 70

Length of the Interview: 17:25 

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch

Participant (Code in black):



Okay, so this is participant 70. So I’ve got a series of questions about 8 of them I guess, broken down in parts. We’ve got about 15 minutes to get through them. 

Sounds good

Um, so when did you start your BUD/s class?

Uh, I was in class 338 originally in prep. First phase, got rolled after hell week with ‘38 joined ‘39 and still here with ‘39. 

Is this your first BUD/s experience? 

Yes

I mean you got rolled, but then you…

Yeah, this is my first shot at it.  





Interview Guide

Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): How many siblings do you have?

Uh, I’ve got three other siblings. I’m the oldest of 4 kids. 

So yourself, then brother, sister?

Yeah, it’s me then, uhm, two sisters and a younger brother. 

Sister, sister, brother?

Yup. 

What was your parental situation growing up? 

Good, really good. Uhm, two hardworking, strong, christian parents. Uh…

So married?

Yeah, they’re married. 

So you have a good relationship with both your parents?

Very good









SIO: What life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/s?

Prior to BUD/s? Uhm, I don’t know if there is just one life changing event. I would say honestly, just, I was an over achiever growing up, but with that came a lot of failure as well, so just kind of dealing with failure and just you know getting back on the horse and you know continuing on and chasing whatever dream I was chasing that time in my life. Just doing that over and over and over again. Uhm, I would say that probably was the biggest impact on me. Just going through that same thing over and over again. 







SIO: How did that, how did that sort of experience of being an over achiever  and experiencing a lot of failure and getting right back on that horse and riding it contribute to your experience at BUD/s?

Uh, I mean I used pretty applications uh you know imagine uh, you know, you fail, you fail a lot here at BUD/s. Obviously, uhm you just gott keep dusting yourself off everyday and wake up and get after it the next day. You can’t really dwell on, uhm, failing anything you know. I didn’t really, like, I didn’t really, It’s not like I failed a bunch a bunch by any means, but just like you know you’re never right kind of thing, you know always getting beat for whether you deserve it or not deserve it’s just putting up with that day in and day out kind of, you know. 









SIO: How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

Uhm, I just, I don’t know. I’ve been competitive really my whole life , so I would say that is probably the most applicable factor of my personality. Uhm, I, I don’t know, I’m just. I don’t know how else to answer that, I guess. I just would say just a part of me uh made it easy to just keep getting after it everyday.  















SIO: Describe your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community.  In particular, what, what the question is asking about is do you have any SEALs family or friends? Do you have any military family or friends? 

Uh, yeah. So I’m from, I’m from a small farm town in Northeast Kansas first off, so there’s not that much exposure to uhm SEAL communities. Growing up I had no access, uhm, you know, just I read books about ‘em. Uhm, you know thought they were the best and wanted to, uhm I wanted to pursue, I wanted to pursue something great like that, so uhm, I’ve like always wanted to do it too, so it probably started when I was young, middle school or something like that, and uhm, I was always fascinated by kind of the higher that it is not for everybody, not everybody makes it through you know, only the strongest guys get to the end sort of thing, and that was appealing to me back then, and uhm, I guess that’s why. Did I answer the question at all?

Yeah.

Can you, can you repeat the question or something, like the first part of it?

Do you have any...describe your background that led you to becoming a part of the SEAL community, and in particular, what, what the question is asking about is do you have any SEALs family or friends, or any military family or friends? 

Check, check, gotcha. So yeah, no family, no friends that were in the teams. Uhm yeah, but I just grew up playing sports, uhm my entire life. I think that’s, just probably that competitive environment was always to be a part of a team. Uhm, I’ll say that was another draw for me, because that was like my life growing up that’s really all I did, so all I really cared about was, uhm you know, whatever sports season I was in kind of a deal, so I would say that you know having that, being in that environment my entire childhood growing up and then into highschool and college I would say that is probably why, you know that the teams are very appealing to me. 

So let me ask you a specific questions about your childhood. How were you disciplined as a child? Spanks, timeouts, grounding?	







SIO: So let me ask you a specific questions about your childhood. How were you disciplined as a child? Spanks, timeouts, grounding?	

All of it, all. 

All, everything?

Yeah, a good mix of all of that. Uhm, yeah, I was, uh, I never got in too much trouble thankfully, growing up, but when I was like real young, talking like, you know, kindergarten and stuff like that, uhm, I just remember my mom telling me that I did have like a special behavior chart growing up, you know, cause I was just always acting up, doing stuff, so uhm, but yeah, my parents did a good job of disciplining me and I just kind of snapped out of that. Uhm, I was a pretty good student throughout school. 







SIO: Did you, Did you move around as a child? 

Uh, not too much. Uhm, so went to preschool and kindergarten in the place where are graduated then I went two years and did 1st grade and 2nd grade in another town, then came back to that town I graduated from, so. So, not too much moving around. 

So, you said you participated in team sports in highschool. What sports?

Uhm, football, basketball, baseball, and I did track for two years. Did all the others for 4 years. 





SIO: What have you done in the last 5 years prior to coming to BUD/S?

Uh, I went to school. I played, uhm, I played baseball at the University of Sioux Falls South Dakota. Uhm, I did 5 years of college, so that was pretty much it. I graduated college. I took like another...I got lasik at the end of college so I had to wait like another 6 months to join because there’s like uh you have to do that post getting surgery you have to wait like 6 months before you can join so waited that 6 months then joined as soon as that 6 months was up. 

Are you an officer?

Enlisted. 

Enlisted?

Yeah.

With your college degree?

Yeah. You’d be surprised, the majority of the e-dawgs here have college degrees. 

(Unintelligible)...What is your degree in?’

Uh, exercise science with a minor in psychology. 



Would you consider yourself impulsive?  

Impulsive as far as like…?

It says in a, as a personality.

Uhm, I don’t know...I don’t know about impulsive. Uhm, maybe I think like polarizing, a little bit, I always was, but I don’t think impulsive. I wouldn’t say that. 

So an example that they give is, uh do you have any tattoos?  

No tattoos, no. 

Apparently that’s a sign of impulsivity.

Yeah, no tattoos, yeah. 













SIO: What was your most challenging component of BUD/S? 

Uhm, probably getting rolled. I was rolled if I didn’t tell you that. 

What did you get rolled for?

I got rolled for drown proofing. 

For what?

For drown proofing. So, you know tying your feet up, tying your hands up and…

Oh, what motivated you to push through?

Uhm, It was just like just not not quitting, not accepting failure as an option you know. Like I said I’ve been down that road many a time and I knew that just you know it’s just a drown proofing test, which is a stupid test. You know, uhm I was not going to let that stop me from achieving my goal. I had already made it through hell week at that point you know, so it was just, yeah. 

So when you get rolled, do you go back to the start? And do it again or where you left off?

No, so I I picked up where I left off since I was a post hell week roll back. Uhm, if you don’t make it to hell week and get rolled back for something medical or something like that you have to start at the beginning and make it through hell week. After hell week if you get rolled for something you’re still in first phase, but you just pick up wherever you left off. 

With the next class? 

With the next class, yeah. 

Did you feel you were supported by the group?

By the other students? Oh, yeah 100 percent. 100 percent, yeah. Yeah, I was fortunate to have quite a few guys, quite a few post hell week guys got rolled back together for ‘38 as you can see a majority of the class is ‘38 original guys. Uhm, and that, those guys were awesome. You know like, a majority of us were top uhm, top performers from ‘38 that got rolled back for water evolutions and we kind of banded together and were not going to you know, not going to take you know failure as a final outcome kind of thing, and uhm, we all just got after it as being rollbacks, uhm improved our weaknesses and 	came back a much stronger candidate after being rolled back. 



SIO: So, what practices physical, mental, spiritual, etc. did you utilize to push through the challenges?

Uh, practices as far as what specifically?

Like physical, mental, spiritual.

Uh,

Did you meditate? What did you do?

I didn’t really meditate or much of that. Uh, I guess I was just too stubborn to quit. I just, I knew going into it that I wasn’t going to quit to be the reason you know that I didn’t make it through that wasn’t going to be the reason for not making it through. Uh, I wouldn’t say I did any sort of meditation or anything like that. Uhm, yeah. Just stubbornness I guess that’s the way to put it. 





SIO: When you made a difficult decision during training, what went through your mind as you made that decision? So, what decision did you really struggle with? For example, running classmates out or turning in someone for cheating. 

Uhm 

Were there any instances of that for you?

Uh, no nothing nothing glaring. Yeah, I mean hell week was, hell week was a while ago now. Uh yeah I, I don’t know. I guess there is nothing as solid for me having to do anything like that, I just you know, I went into, I went into hell week with with the attitude of you know give it the best, best I got, I’m not going to quit. And if the best i got isn’t enough, so be it. Uhm I can go out of my way to run certain guys out of the class and you know if they didn’t keep up, they couldn’t keep up and that was that, you know. But yea. 





SIO: So, so you sort of answered this question, why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

Just competitiveness, and just too stubborn to quit. I just you know failing as quitting was just not an option for me, and 





SIO: Did you notice anything different about those that did not make it?

Anything different from us that did make it you mean?

Yeah. 

Uhm

Like different from you. Your characteristics.

I would say I mean, character I mean obvious answer it’s not really character it’s preparation you know, I can really see that guys from my perspective clearly did not uhm prepare the way they should have for the progrom. Uhm, I don’t know why they choose not to do that, but uhm character wise, I don’t know you can just see in some people just don’t see it in other people and I think a lot of the guys that do quit, I was not surprised. Uh, you know there obviously are guys that you are surprised that quit. I don’t know what’s running through their mind. Uh, yeah, I don’t know if I could put it on one character trait it just kind of, I don’t know. We, we, uh, we did like two months of prep. We really do like two months of boot camp and then it’s two months of prep then another month of PTRR before first phase, so you spend a lot of time with most guys before first phase even starts, so kind of from spending that time with those guys you can kind of see uh maybe who’s not, those, those guys who are not maybe as mentally squared away as others sort of thing, so I don’t know if I can put it on just one trait. 













SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person?

Uhm, that’s a good question. Uhm, I don’t know if it has changed me, uhm, as a person to much. Uhm I...that might, that might yup.

Alright. 

That make take some. That might take a little more reflection for me to answer that completely. 

Alright well we’re about out of time anyway. 

Alright yeah sorry about that. 

No problem
