TRANSCRIBER NAME: Bradley

Date: 23AUG 2020

Participant #: 356

Length of the Interview: 00:13:17

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch

Participant (Code in black): 356



This is particiopany 356. I've got about eight questions broken into 100 parts each, broken into a few parts each so uh but we've got 15 so we should be able to get through it. So they're somewhat open ended questions but ya know if you keep your answers relatively concise we should be able to make it all the way through. 

Oh yeah I shouldn't have a problem with that.

When did you start BUD/S?

Oh I started May of 2019.

18 or 19?

19.

19. Is this your first BUD/S experience?

Yes it is.

How many siblings do you have?

Uh I have three siblings.

Whats uh the uh sex and uh sequence?

Uh I have three older sisters.

Three older sisters. Just out of curiosity, how old is the oldest?

I think she's about to be 30 or is already 30. I'm not 100 percent sure.

Wha- what's your uh parental situation growing up? What was it?

Uh great I...

Mom, Dad?

I have a mom and dad yeah. 

And then your parents were married?

Yes

And you have, do you have, what's the relationship you have with them right now?

Uh I have a fantastic relationship with them.

So what, if any, uh life changing events happened in your life prior to coming to BUD/S?

Uh I’d say the main thing was uh my best friend died when he was 16. He had a heart attack.

One of my best friends died in a car accident at that age. Two of them actually together. Um how did that factor or that experience factor into your uh experience at BUD/S?

Um it it's the sole reason I'm here really. It's like the big overarching reason I acutally came. Uh I think it helped me a lot to keep in mind that I was doing this for uh more for people than just my own sake. 

In what way?

Uh it just made me uh put into put my life into retrospect for myself and realize that uh i should never be doing things for myself i should just try to help others as much as possible and I think that's helped a lot going through buds. 

How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

Umm im pretty quiet and reserved guy so i think uh it kinda helped just keeping my head down and not making a lot of noise.

So describe your background that led you to pursuing becoming a part of the SEAL community? Uh do you have any SEALs as family members or friends?

No no actually uh my parents aren't even, they're from England so they’re not even citizens of the US. I just uh one day wanted to do something more than just working construction back home so I went to the recruiter's office and they handed me the pamphlet for this program and uh I decided to do it. 

Ok so let me ask some questions about your childhood. How were you disciplined as a child?

Uh my parents were always strict like they never like beat me if I did anything wrong, they just...

Were you spanked or? 

No no no they just corrected by talking to me sitting down explaining why things were wrong and why I shouldn’t do them. 

Did you move throughout your childhood?

Yes uh three or four times.

Were these uh like uh major moves or?

Yeah I moved from um Massachusetts to Texas back and forth both times, all the times

Massachusetts to Texas to Massachusetts and…

Back to Texas yeah

So MA to Texas to Massachusetts to Texas again. Quite a cultural change.

Yes it was.

Um tell me about your teenage years. Were you involved in high school sports or team events or team ya know community or anything like that?

I played lacrosse, football and I ran track and cross country.

Any other team events? 

Uh i was on the robotics team 

What have you done for the list 5 years prior to coming to BUD/S?

Um I’m 21 so I was in high school and then uh I worked construction and landscaping and I worked in a restaurant.

Like as a cook or as waiter or…?

Uh, I was a waiter.

And then you joined the Navy?

Yup I joined the navy.

Did you go straight from signing up or enlisting to um…. So no college?

No college.

So did you, you enlisted and you went straight to basic or bootcamp or whatever its called in the Navy?

Yes.

And um then to Great Lakes?

Then to Great Lakes.

Then here. Like a lot of people follow that, follow that track. Would you consider yourself as impulsive?

No

Do you have any tattoos?

I do

How many 

One

Is that supposed to be a sign of impulsive?

Oh I thought about that one for a long time.

Yeah some still think it's that way. What was the most challenging component of BUD/S either like a hardest day or hardest event or?

Um life saving was probably one of the harder ones. It's a lot of... (unintelligible 8:00-8:01)... stress during the actual event too. 

What's involved in that? 

Um you have to uh buddy tow on of the instructors across the pool but uh there's three different types of rescues you have to do you have to do an active front, an active rear, and a passive and so during the active and the, the active front and rear, they’re fighting you the whole time so they'll like grab you and roll or they’ll grab you and try and like pull you under water. Like act like a panicking victim so you have to uh react to the situation and follow the proper procedures to break away and uh successfully tow them to the other side keeping their head above the water. 

So what motivated you to push through?

Uh I mean I just... Same thing for uhh all of BUD/S pretty much I knew I wanted to be here. After uh seeing all the guys around me just the whole mental attitude of everyone here and uh I wasn't gonna quit. 

Did you feel a lot of support from the, from everyone else, from the group?

Oh yeah everyone is always supporting everybody. 

Were there any practices that you used like physical, mental, spiritual to help you get through?

Um I mean yeah I'm religious. I'm not like overtly religious but I definitely am, I pray, I think about that stuff a lot but also like breathing staying calm and keeping collected the whole time. 

When you made a difficult decision during training, what went through your mind as you made that decision? Uh so was there a decision at some point that you really struggled with? Like for instance uh whether to turn someone in for cheating or to run someone out?

Uh it’s pretty easy uh I just always did something, did whatever was right like uh either morally or by the instructions that were given to us. My boat crew never had to run anyone out. We were all pretty tight, pretty close with each other.

So so was there ever a difficult decision?

Uh in my opinion no, i think it was all pretty cut and dry. What we were supposed to be doing.  

Why do you think you were successful at completing buds?

Uh I think cuz I didn't ever have the idea that I was gonna quit. Once I was here I was gonna be here the whole time.

Did you notice anything different about the people who didn't make it through?

Honestly I didn't really think a lot about them. Obviously you know people who quit but you only them for such a short period of time you never get to know them all that well. 

How quickly do they drop out?

Uh like 1st phase you know the first three weeks a lot of people drop and then uh obviously the fourth week, Hell Week,  it's not actually that many that drop during Hell Week but uh within the first four weeks you pretty much know who's gonna be here and who's not.

So how did this experience change you as a person?

Um I think it it really just reinforced what uh I already believed in. Just doing the right thing no matter what.

Is there anything else that I should have asked you about that I haven't that helped you or hurt you uh in getting through BUD/S?

No I don't think so anything in particular.

Pretty much said everything?

Yeah.

Ok.

Alright then.

We’re done. 

Thank you very much sir.
