TRANSCRIBER NAME: SCHATZ

Date: 19 AUG 2020

Participant #: 237

Length of the Interview: 13:22

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):
Interview Guide

It is 0825 on 10 Feb, CDR Ledford and I am uhh with Participant number 237 and uhh are you good with us recording this?  Yes. Okay, so we are just going to talk about some uhh background questions uh some warm up ones Cool for you to get started with.

Uh when did you start with BUD/S?
Uhh Class 339. 339.
And was this the first time you’ve been to BUD/S?
Yes.
first time that's good. Uhh siblings, how many siblings do you have?
I have three siblings.
So whats, how are you in the stack?
I’m the youngest. Of four.
And what are their what are their ages? So my and sexes.
So my sister is the oldest she is 28, uhh my brother Dave 27, umm and my brother Paul 25.
And you are?
I’m 23. My sister actually just turned I think 29 while I was gone.
29.
Yea no sorry about that.
Its good. Gotcha. Uhh Parents, are your parents married, divorced?
They’re married.
Always married?
Yup, 25 years.
And whats your uh relationship with your parents? Pretty close?
Very close, yes. They live overseas, but we are very close.
Where do they live?
They live uh in Qatar in Doha for my dad’s work.
SIO: So uhh looking back at your life, would you say there were any life changing events that occurred that kinda shaped you in some way or somehow, really significant?
Mhm, uhh I’d say  probably as a military kid, moving around living in Hawaii and Peru at a young age kinda opened my eyes a little bit and umm I moved to Coronado as a 12 year old and that kinda exposed me to what the SEAL Teams were at a young age. Umm sorry I didn’t give multiple.
Sorry what?
Sorry I hope thats what you mean.
Yea no thats perfect. Yup thats good. What do you think about your personality that contributed to your progression at BUD/S?
Umm I’m super out going. Umm I like to connect with the guys so I think that helped a lot. Umm In first phase, umm you know in physical evolutions I was able to motivate the guys. Umm, also I have a side a competitive side I uh played sports in college and was a captain and stuff so I think that helped me as being O in BUD/S, that translated really well having that experience to lean on you know.







SIO: What about your background that lead you to  becoming a SEAL? Did you have any SEAL friends or family? I did. So my dad was dad in the Marine Corps, dad was military. What’d your dad do in the Corps? So he was a Wizzo or an NFO, uh he was a backseater excuse me for F-18s and then my brother is a PJ and then some of my really good friends growing up dads’ were in the Teams so I think all of those contributed to it. So your friend’s dads were in the Teams. Yea







SIO: Uhh so what about your childhood like how were you disciplined as a child. A, did your parents spank you? Strict. Pulled toys? Yup. Yea my parents were really strict growing up. Christian household spankings all of that. And you moved around a lot as a childhood? Yes. How often? About every three years until uh I was 12. Every 3 threes until 12 and then after 12? After 12, my dad got out and we stayed in San Diego.









SIO: Umm your teenage years, did you do uhh team sports or any activity? I played lacrosse, football, soccer with lacrosse being my main sport. Lacrosse, soccer, football.





SIO:What about the last 5 years prior to coming to BUD/S if you could trace out what did you do for those 5 years leading up to BUD/S? Umm so I went to the Merchant Marine Academy in New York. Oh really, how long were you there for? I was there for four years. Oh so you graduated from Kings Point. Yea umm yea within that timeframe I spent a year at sea that was definitely a big growth period, working on ships and then I came almost straight here.

Would you consider yourself an impulsive person? I guess depends on the circumstances, but umm yea I’d say yea but it depends on what it is. Do you uh have any tattoos? I do, I have three. Big ones, small ones? Yea uhh pretty small one is maybe a medium.















SIO: What do you think was the most challenging component of BUD/S like what was the hardest day or hardest event? What would you say the hardest piece was? Umm probably hell week, I would say the surf torture on day 1 of Hell Week that was the darkest moment I had besides getting gassed.

What motivated you to push through it?
Umm I had a couple buddies Chris Dunn being one of them and we were talking to each other while we were getting surf torture and we we all admitting and relating that we were in a dark place and in that head space and that we were all in it together.

What about umm practices?
Did you have any daily practices uh like physical, mental, spiritual that helped you deal with the challenges.
The one daily practice that was consistent for me was my morning cup of coffee. I bought a Keurig and I would lock it in my closet everyday and that was my thing I would look forward to every morning was my cup of coffee. Laughs, would you do anything while you were drinking  coffee or? Umm yea I’d put my headphones and I’d listen to music, umm depending on the day sometimes it’d either be hard rock or some mellow reggae. And then umm on the island, I read my bible every night that was my little thing at the end of the day that kinda kept me grounded and that I could look forward to.

Do you think about any kind of decision you had to make was there a difficult decision that you really struggled with getting through BUD/S?
Mhmm so sorta like running classmates out or turning in a cheating classmates, anything you really had to grapple with. Umm no, I haven’t been faced with anything like that yet. I guess one is when we do top five bottom five and being honest if someone is your pal and they are not a good performer do you really think they are bottom five. That was tough for me a couple times. Being honest about that.

What do you think made you successful at BUD/S?
Man that’s something I would attribute to a lot of different things I had a really good training buddy at Merchant Marine that went EOD. I had a mentor growing up in Coronado that was a SEAL chief and he was both a spiritual and a physical mentor if you will. Umm college lacrosse and surfing and spear fishing helped me in the water

What do you think about those who didn’t make it? What did you notice about them, what would you say the difference is between guys who are not here?
Uhh I think that they had an excuse for things, they came up with an excuse for why things weren’t up to par.

How do you think this experience changed you as a person?
Umm I think it shows you the things you are capable of. Anything else. I also think it humbles you if you don’t humble yourself and it will show you what you are not good at and it will expose you whether its your classmates calling you out, an instructor or an evolution you fail. Anything else you think that helped or hurt you that you think we should be asking about? Umm not that I can think of. Awesome, alright thank you that was really helpful. Letme see the (Unintelligible) that we are going to write. Alright, thank you.
