TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Daniel Williams

Date: 19AUG2020

Participant #: 325 

Length of the Interview: 13:27

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Raver-Luning

Participant (Code in black):



Ok. Is it ok if I record this interview?



Yes.



And what is your participant ID number?



325.



Ok. 325. So, um easy questions first. Uh, what class, BUD/S class did you start in?



Uh, 339



339. So, made it straight through? No problems?



Yeah, no problems.



Yay! Congratulations. 



Yeah.   



Interview Guide

Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Um, so, how many siblings do you have?



I have two siblings. One brother and one sister. They are both older.



SIO: So you are the youngest?



Yes ma’am.

 

SIO: And then, what’s your, um, parent situation? Do you have married parents? Divorced parents? 



Uh, divorced parents.



Ok.



I've lived with my dad since I was about nine or ten.



Ok. Are either of your parents remarried? Or?



No. (unintelligible).



And what’s your relationship like with your parents?



They're good. Um, yeah they're good. I mean, no problems.



Did you see your mom a lot? Or?



Yeah. She’s still around. Uh, but, yeah. But, lived with my dad since I was ten years old. (unintelligible).



Ok. um, and then, um did they live in the same area? Or how?



Yeah they live right down the street from each other. Uh, my mom lives in, she moved to Minnesota for a little bit. Um, I'm from Virginia, so um. 



Ok.



Yeah so she lived there for a little bit but not very long. So, but yeah, relatively close. 



Now did your, did you grow up with your siblings, or were they?



Yeah.



Ok. So everybody lived with your dad?



Yeah. 



Ok.      



SIO: Um, any life changing events that happened to you prior to coming to BUD/S? Whether positive, negative, something in between? 



No, no nothing too crazy.



Ok. 



Uh. 



What’s, kind of, your story? Did you go to college? Did you come straight here?



Yeah, so I went to, uh, high school uh, went to a semester of college. Played football. Uh, didn't like it. And I joined uh, a little over a year ago. 



Ok. and then, bootcamp and here? Or?



Yeah. bootcamp straight here, and prep.  



SIO: What about, tell me a little bit about your personality? And how you think your personality contributed to getting through BUD/S?



Um, I don't really know. It, um, if you asked anybody here, they would say I'm pretty quiet. Um, Don't talk a whole lot. I think, um.



Have you always been that way, or is that unique to this situation?



I think it’s. I've always been pretty like, kind of like an introvert. But, um, I’d say it's. Since I’ve gotten here, I've gotten a little bit more, quieter. 



Yeah,



Um.   



Is there a reason for that? Or?



No. It's just kind of always how I’ve been, I don't really…



Ok.



 I don't really know why. Uh, but yeah. That’s pretty much it. 





SIO: What, um, what about your background led you to want to become part of the SEAL community?  



Um, I've always been, always been into like sports, athletics, like team stuff. um,  And yeah like playing football, baseball, like being a part of teams, you're always looking for really like, that special bond. But you just like, I don't know, playing high school sports you can't really find that because nobody is like this, here. So. 



Yeah.



Now what about. Any military in your family?



No, no military.



Ok. What um, at what point did you think SEALs is what I want to do?



Say when I was about a freshman in high school. Felt. yeah, just started reading all the books and stuff, uh, kind of piqued my interest. So.  



SIO: what about your childhood? I mean, you told me about your parents, but how were you disciplined as a child? 



Um, well my dad was pretty hard on, hard on me. Always trying to push me, whether that be sports or academics. Um, but yeah. Kind of build that uh, work ethic that I think I still have. Um. 



Were you spanked as a child? Timeouts? What was the discipline style? 



No, no, he never laid a hand on me, uh, but he was definitely, definitely very hard on, on all my, on all of us. 



Just high expectations? Or? 



Yeah. High expectations.   



Uh, Did you move around at all during your high…?



No, I lived in Virginia my whole life. 



Ok, where in Virginia?



Uh, Burke Virginia.



Wh-where?



Burke Vriginia.



Burke. Where is that?



Its like 30 minutes outside DC



Ok. 



Southwest outside of DC.



Um, same house, or was you moved?



Um, I lived in like three houses, since I was…



Ok. 







SIO: So tell me about your teenage years, a little bit. Tell me what sports you played.  



Yeah, so I played, played baseball, football all through high school. Um, I’d say, I mean I was pretty committed to that. I was always really. I mean if I Wasn't, I wasn't playing it I was either working out or, yeah. I mean that was pretty much my whole, that was like my life. Just trying to go to college and play a sport. Um.  



SIO: So tell me about the 5 years leading up to BUD/S? Like, where were you? How long? Cause you said you were in college for a little bit. Tell me.



Yeah, so we were in Virginia for all high school and everything for that.



What year did you graduate high school?



2018



Ok.



And then following that I went to Shepherd university.



Ok.



 In West Virginia. 



Ok.



A D-2 school. Um, I did my first semester. I didn't like it. It was just, um, didn't, wasn't for me.   



Were you playing sports when you were there? 



Yeah I was playing football. Um, yeah. So kind of, was on the fence about, coming out of high school, if I wanted to go to college or just join the Navy. 



Yeah.



Um, had some, had some pressure to go play college football. Um, and I thought if I didn't like it I could always just leave. So then, so I was like, go try it out, and didn't like it, yeah. And came home for thanksgiving break and told my dad I was doing this. He was like, alright, I’m not gonna talk you out of it. And yeah. Went to my recruiter in the fall, and it’s been smooth sailing since.



Ok. And so you joined, again, over um, 2019. 



Yeah.



February or something?



December    



December 



2019. 



Of ‘18.



Or excuse me, yeah, ‘18



I was like, what year are we in?



Yeah, exactly.



Don’t, don't have me lose another year! 



SIO: Um, do you consider yourself impulsive at all? 



Um, no.



SIO: Any tattoos?



No.



SIO: Lots of speeding tickets? Anything like that?



No. I’ve never been pulled over. No tattoos. Not yet. I don't think, I don’t think I will. Um. 



Any major purchases without much thought gone into it?



No. um, no I'm actually in the process of buying a car right now and I'm super, like, diligent about it. I don't want to make any stupid mistakes or anything like that, so. Or do anything crazy, so. No, I’d say I’m really, pretty diligent when it comes to that sort of stuff, so.   



Yeah. 





SIO: What about, what do you think was the most challenging component of BUD/S? Or what was the most challenging part of BUD/S? Whether it was a single day, or a larger…? 



I’d say, um, just the, uh, relentlessness of it. Um, there was times in first phase when I’d, where we’d have an extremely hard day, and I’d be like, well there’s no way that it could be that hard the next day. It was. So. I’d say that was probably the biggest thing for me. 





SIO: So what helped you get through that?  



Um, say just keeping a positive attitude.



Was that, sorry-. 



There was no, like, specific thing I would do. Anything like, anything I would say to myself in my head. I don’t know I just kind of did it. And, just kept going.



Any um, with the positive attitude, was it, like, more internal, or was it like, kind of collectively…?



Definitely in-, I'd say both. Internal and, um, being around everybody. Knowing that you're going through the same pain is, um, good. 



SIO: Um, any practices that you utilized to get through, um, get through BUD/S? Whether they were spiritual, mental, physical?

 

No, I didn't do a whole lot of stretching. I'm not very religious. Um, I mean, for me I was just always at, at the end of the day, just ordering a pizza from Dominos. That was my big thing, so.   



SIO: Um, any sort of, lik,e mindset things you did, like, that you thought about? Or just?



Um, I’d say, just thinking about my family. I couldn't...just letting them down was probably the one thing I thought about, um. Other than that, no. 



SIO: Was there any time that you had to make a difficult decision while training at BUD/S? Um,  Like an ethical or moral type of decision or anything?  



Um, nothing, no, nothing huge.



Anything you saw, maybe somebody else like cutting corners and you had to decide do you speak up? Do you (unintelligible)?



No. I’ve actually, one thing I think we did really well as a class was not cutting any corners. Individually, and as a class whole, so.  



Ok.     



SIO: um, why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?



Um, I don't know. Just being quiet, putting my head down, doing what I’m told. Um, because, what, I mean, everyone has their different ways of approaching it. I definitely uh, my thing was just being quiet, putting your head down, just doing what you’re told, and putting out.     



SIO: Anything different that you noticed about people that made it through BUD/S versus the ones that specifically quit? Not necessarily people who got dropped.



No. I mean, going through boot camp and everything I’d, like, I’d be like oh that dude is definitely going to make it, and he ended up quitting. And the guys who are still here from my boot camp division, I, if you would have asked me I would have been like, maybe, I don’t know.  



What do you think was, was like if you could pinpoint something? Or a couple things?



Just, certainly the guys who are still here from my boot camp division, um, and the original 339 class, all super positive dudes, very smart, um, just great attitudes.   



SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person? If at all?



It, def- yeah, it definitely changed me. Um. definitely had, I can’t, I couldn't exactly say how or why but I feel, I’m definitely different than from when I, from when I joined.



Anything else I didn't ask that you think would be good for us to know? 



No. That was all good.



Ok. well great, that's it.



Awesome.



Finished. 



Thank you.



Thank you, congratulations. 



Thank you.
