TRANSCRIBER NAME: Andrew Malick

Date: 12AUG2020

Participant #: 115 switched to 353 (115_2020.02.10_08.05_01.mp3)

Length of the Interview: 16:19

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Alex Deitrich

Participant (Code in black): 353



Interview Guide



So you completed the consent. And do I have your consent to record? 



Yes.



OK, great. So your number, you can tell me your number and sort of explain the situation...



My old card was 115. It was lost last time I checked in. So we switched it to 353 with the new information. 



OK. So when did you start your BUD/s class?



I came to Coronado with class 337. I was rolled out of orientation, did not class up with first phase with  337. I secured hell week with 338. 



OK. And was this your goal, was that was your first BUD/S experience? 



Yes.



Congratulations on making it this far. 



Thank you.



So could we talk about your family? Do you have any siblings? 



I have one younger brother is three years younger. 



Can you talk about your family dynamics? Were your parents married, divorced and separated?



Both of my parents are married? So, yeah, they have good, good relationship. They've been together my whole life. 



And how has your relationship with them? 



It's good. I'll talk to them all the time still while I'm here. Growing up, would describe as the typical relationship dynamic you would expect between your parents and kids. But I've talked to them a lot. 



So, any life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/s?



I'm proud of BUD/S yes, so I was in college and pursuing my degree earned myself a night in jail on a DUI. So that was kind of a big turning point in my life. I would say the biggest thing that happened to me, because that's when I really turned my sights from school to focusing on this actually into being suspended for a semester of college my third year because of that. And then from there, I decided to continue my education and go on to start training for this assessment. I left I didn't earn my degree. And I didn't did not finish. Yes. So I left and started training for this. And a year later, I joined the military. 



OK. So you enlisted?  



Yes. 



How do you think? And if so, how do you think those experiences factored into your experiences at BUD/S? 



So I think that just knowing that I can overcome hardships are when things were- things was a pretty dark time for me at that time, as well as really disappointing myself and continue to go on. I think that knowing that I can could overcome, you know, like change events such as that going into BUD/S. I knew that whatever they'd throw at me that I can overcome it. 



So, knowing you could overcome adversity? 



Yes. 



 How do you think your personality affected your progression through BUD/S?



I consider myself a pretty amicable person. I can kind of talk with people, connect with people. So that's I think the big thing here with the emphasis on teamwork is, you know, creating good, strong relationships with people around you. So I think that was a big part of it, was being able to kind of integrate with the class full of type A, very hardheaded people. So it worked out really well and it worked. I think I became pretty clear about everyone in class. 



So it sounds like you're agreeable. You talked about good communication skills.



Yeah I believe so. I think that I can convey my thoughts and emotions to people in a direct manner, but one that, you know, people can respond to. 



And relationship building. 



Yes. 



OK... Would you consider yourself competitive? 



Yes. Absolutely. I grew up playing sports all my life. I've played three sports all through high school and have always had that competitive drive and desire to succeed. 



But somehow managing to balance that with others, but also relationship building?



Well, absolutely. I mean, I think competition is- there's a difference between healthy competition and one where you want to be... raise your personal station and be detrimental to others. But I think competitiveness and good drive will to succeed is very important. However, having that competitiveness, you also want the people around you to succeed with you. I think that's kind of the essence of teamwork and something that's very important here. 



So describe anything in your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community? Did you have any SEAL mentors or is there somebody in the family or friend? 



The family. Family friend- I grew up in Virginia Beach, Virginia. So it's you know, that's a big half of the community over there. So I'd always kind of seen them walking around and whatnot. And from a young age, you know, knowing who they were, and kinda had an idea of what they did. You know, my parents, you know, when they first told me about, say, "you know, these guys are the ones that protect us and whatnot." That's kind of where it started going back my head. But when I was young enough, it sound like such an insurmountable thing. But growing up, we had a couple of family, friends who, you know, I would talk to and the people that they were I wanted to emulate. So from there, it was always kind of thought that, hey, I'm may pursue this. 



So tell me about your childhood. For example, you have a good relationship with your... parents? How how you disciplined? 



Corporal punishment was a very big part of- spankings and the belt and whatnot. Yes. 



OK. There was a belt? 



Yes, there was definitely a belt. 



And like through what age do you think? 



I was probably like 10 I so would probably be the latest that was, you know, as I started to grow older, you know, that they will just treat me like an adult. And when I made mistakes, I was held accountable for those mistakes. So that was, when I got older and teenage years and what not. It was more grounding and kind of restricting my freedoms because I would say they got breached their trust or something. So because of that, my freedom would be restricted. 



Taking video games away? 



I didn't play any video games, but just grounding. I couldn't go play with my friends. And, you know, yeah the car once I was able to drive is a big thing. 



And did you move around through your childhood? 



No, I was born and raised in, Virginia Beach, the same house. 



Ok, same house.



Yes, yes. 



And then tell me about your teenage years. You mentioned sports? Any team sports?



Yes, yes. I played baseball, football. I swam from 9th grade on middle school as well. 



Four years? 



Yes. Yes. So the school, I went to a first through twelfth grade private school. So it was you know, you were in the same building your entire your entire time in school. So middle school and high school were always more blended than it would be in, you know, typical elementary, middle, high school. 



Feeling the team dynamics, sort of learning how to work on a team?



Absolutely. I mean, the people that I went to school with, I was pretty much with from first grade on. So, you know, very strong relations there. And so it was beneficial because we all knew each other very well going into when we played the team sports. So that was a good, good relationships built early on. 



So this question asks about the last five years, immediately before BUD/S, I think you answered, that you had the college experience? 



Yes, I did college. And then when I when I left college, I came back home and worked odd jobs. I worked in a restaurant for while. I was a server. I was I was- my summer job was a Virginia Beach lifeguard. So I did that for eight years every summer. That was a big part of a lot of physical training involved in that. And outside of that, you know, worked out a lot and then got on certain programs lifting programs and running programs. Once I had, you know, set my sights directly on my dock to BUD/S, which was about two years ago, I would say it would be a really good turning point defining moment when I started, "I'm going to train for this.". 



OK, great. Would you consider yourself impulsive? For example, do you have any tattoos you just got on a whim, or speeding tickets?



I have tattoos, I have speeding tickets. Yes. I did like to drive fast from time to time. 



When was the last time you had a speeding ticket?



Say, four years ago, the last time. But impulsive isn't tattoo's or making rash decisions if-. 



Big purchases.



Yes, if it's a big purchase or something, that's going to impact me for a long period time after I make that decision, I typically am pretty thoughtful about that. I'd say that most of the mistakes I made my life were something where this was kinda younger and more than my decision making from that. But if I made a mistake, it was because of an impulse decision and because of that, I think now, as I've grown up, matured a bit, that rash decisions are fewer and further between. And I'm more thoughtful in my decision making and the whether they're negative or positive impacts the decisions have. 



What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? This is kind of a holistic question. So it could be a particular day or could be sort of a general- the water. You know was there something that's really been a challenge for you to overcome? 



I think it was overall just being doubtful of... my ability to do so. You know, you're surrounded by so many incredible athletes, incredible driven people. That was kind of a thought of... You know, if you see guys quit, you thought were absolute studs and like, okay, these guys can't make it. Will I be able to? So I think that just like on a day to day basis, like, hey, you're going to get up and you're gonna do this to the best you can and whatever happens, happens. But I think this mental aspect is is by far the most challenging part physically. Everyone can do it, but mentally is where it separates who does and who succeeds and fails.



So what motivated you to push through? How did you get past that, "self talk"? 



That's, I think just looking for the guy to the left and right of you. It's like, you knowl don't do it for yourself, do it for the guy next to you. So if you're gone, they're going to be carrying more weight because you're gone. So in order to continue on, you have to make sure the guy next to you is OK, because that's what really matters. 



OK. You were doing it to support them. Did you feel supported by the group? 



Yes. Yes, I did. I mean, I was fortunate enough- the guys in my boat crew who were also of similar heights. You know, I think I was fortunate to have a group of solid guys who we became very close with. So that driving factor of, "I care about these guys. I want them to succeed as much as I want to succeed." So I think that really is what pushed me all the way through.



Were you ever thinking about somebody who wasn't in that immediate situation like that when he doesn't want your family or your-



I think it would be my mentors, people that I talked to when I told them, like, I'm going to do this, like you said, to do this dream go all the way. You're not going to come back until you fail so-. 



Were you ever thinking about them in the moment when it was hard? 



Ummm, no it was more so at the end of the day, it's like, hey, "I made it through another day." I can tell them that I'm continuing on. But in a moment, It was the guys that drived me. 



SIO: So did you have any practices, physical and mental, spiritual that you used to push through the challenges? Any prayers, or mantras, sometimes athletes will do a routine before they go into a game situation. Do you have anything that you used? 



I said the simple mantra in my head, it was, kind of, you know, "Brothers do it for them. And that was just in the same vein for the guys that I did not do it for them." So I would tell myself that things are rough.



I'm sorry I couldn't hear the, "Do it for them". Who is them? 



It's a very broad thing, but, you know, it kind of encompasses the guys beside me as well as, you know, my family and friends back home. 



SIO: So when you made a difficult decision during training to BUD/S. What went through your mind as you made that decision? And what was there a decision you really struggled with an example like appearance, running classmates out, or turning into a cheating classmate. Really struggle with any decision? 



Running classmates out was a big one. You know, I like them as a person? But, if they were going to be a liability and cause of injury to myself or the guys who were putting out and performing, then, yes, it's always tough to see that. But in the end, you're going to make a decision that's going to be good for the whole of the class. So if someone wasn't keeping up or wasn't carrying their weight, then... they need to be removed from the program. 



Getting back to this larger- what's what's better for the greatest number of people. 



Exactly. 



SIO: Why do you think you were successful in getting this far? 



I think a big part of it was having those mentors and kind of having idea what was coming. So being mentally prepared for it and knowing, you know, it's going to suck for a while, but you can do it because people before you have done it. 



And did you notice anything different about those that did not make it? Those that dropped?



I think there was a fear- whether that was a fear of failure or fear of of what's to come next rather than, you know, just being in that moment- was the biggest defining factor. Guys would most of the guys that quit, quit before an evolution, not during it, but before it because, it was "oh I'm scared to do this. This guy is just going to suck." So I think there was a trend that I saw these in the classes in my class in first phase was if guys were quitting, it was a quiet moment in between an evolution. 



SIO: So how does this experience, BUD/S, changed you as a person? And if so, how?



Absolutely. I think the biggest thing is that the confidence, knowing what you know, whatever you can throw at me, whatever the instructor throws me, whatever situation is going to be, it doesn't matter, you're gonna get through it. 



Is there anything else? I haven't asked that you- insights you have to, what would make a successful candidate and what we should be looking for when we screen? 



No, I think those questions are pretty good things. It's just, you know, asking about the mental aspect. What you have, you know, mentally in your in your headspace, that's really the biggest aspect of it. But I think to those questions, covered it pretty well. 



Thanks so much. Hit stop.
