TRANSCRIBER NAME: Quinn Barber

Date: 16AUG20

Participant #: 555 and 139

Length of the Interview: 12:41



Interviewer: Can you tell me, is it Okay if I record you?

	

Participant: Yes.



Interviewer: And can you tell me what your numbers are?



Participant: Uh 555 and 139.



Interviewer: Okay and then when did you start BUD/S and is this your first BUD/S experience?



Participant: Uhm, yes it’s my first BUD/S experience, uh but I started BUD/S in December 2018. So it’s been a while.



Interviewer: With 337?



Participant: 335



Interviewer: 335.  You’re my second guy that’s been 335.  



Participant: (Laughter)



Interviewer: Okay so how many siblings do you have and what birth order like an older sister, younger brother? What’s, what do you? 



Participant: I have a younger sister and I am the oldest.



Interviewer: And were your parents married, separated, divorced?



Participant: They are married. 



Interviewer: And then what’s your relationship with them?



Participant: Uh, it's very good, I talk to them pretty much everyday. (chuckle)



Interviewer: Awesome, as a mom I like to hear that.



Participant: I couldn’t, I couldn’t have done it like without being able to have that support system.



Interviewer: That’s great.



Participant: A lot has happened in the past year so it’s, being able to have that to fall back on is, is really good.



Interviewer: Awesome, now what life change, changing events have happened in your life prior to BUD/S and what that means is whatever you think its means so if you have one thing that’s great, if you have nothing that’s great, if you have five things that’s great.



Participant: Hmm. When I was 18, I uh I played football and I brOkaye my leg and I have a, got metal uhm, in my tibia my fibula and they said I would never run again and stuff and I had already planned on trying to do this so that was I guess that was pretty life changing. And then uh.



Interviewer: Yeah, so how did that experience factor into this, your BUD/S?



Participant: Not really at all, like that was like the first time I think that I really had to like overcome something and do rehab and be extremely disciplined and try an get to an end point.



Interviewer: So that was, you were a senior then right?



Participant: Yes, so I was trying to play baseball in the next, for the next season. That’s all I cared about and then uhm divulged into this cause I knew I was going to uh be in college but yeah.



Interviewer: Okay and how do you think your personality helped you, uh contributed to your progression through BUD/S?



Participant: Uhm. I don’t know, uh, I would say like I’m pretty type A but I’ve learned to really compartmentalize things pretty well and care about what you need to care about and uh not let your mind wander and think about the, like the bullshit stuff.



Interviewer: Mhm. Okay, so what in your background even led you into becoming a SEAL?  Did you know somebody? 



Participant: Uh.



Interviewer: Did you have a family member?



Participant: My family was in the military but uh my, my dad was, he was in the reserves.  My grandfather was in..



Interviewer: Army? Navy?



Participant: Army.  And then my grandfather was in the 11th airborne and like they never pressured me or anything, but it was just kinda always there.  And my parents never pressured me to do anything and so when I told them I wanted to do this, they were like Okay. It wasn’t like a huge shock.



Interviewer: Okay, and then tell me a little bit about your childhood specifically how were you disciplined if you did something wrong you know did your parents spank you, did they give you time out did they take away….



Participant: Yeah, (Laughs) They weren’t afraid, afraid to discipline me at all but that was my biggest fear disappointing them so it didn’t happen very often but ya know? They did if they needed to.



Interviewer: And did you move around a lot?



Participant: No been in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania my entire life.



Interviewer: And then tell me about your teenage years, were you in any team sports?



Participant: Yeah, so I played football ...



Interviewer: That’s right.



Participant: And baseball all through highschool. Uhm, was recruited to play in college, didn’t end up… 



Interviewer: To do what? Baseball? Football?



Participant: Yeah both sports actually.  I ended up playing football like my junior senior year of college.



Interviewer: So you skipped, oh cause your, your. 



Participant: No, I, I uh ended up uh just walking on, I was tired of not playing a sport, and being athletic, being on a team.



Interviewer: And what school did you go to?



Participant: I went to Virginia Military Institute.



Interviewer: Okay. Uhm, and then was your teams pretty tight knit.  



Participant: Uh.



Interviewer: Teams that you were on.



Participant: Yes, the most successful ones always had the most fun on yes, like we were pretty close. Had some of my best friends on those teams.



Interviewer: And what did you do in the last five years of your life prior to BUD/S? So you went to college. 



Participant: Uh, I pretty much went to college and then I uh..



Interviewer: And that, you graduated from VMI?



Participant: Mhm, and then I enlisted that summer after and yeah I was uh, I was married, ended up getting divorced while I was through BUD/S, I know that’s probably important in some respects so.



Interviewer: Yeah, uhm, I would say, so, do you think BUD/S contributed to that?



Participant: No.



Interviewer: Okay. 



Participant: Maybe, yes, probably I don’t know.



Interviewer: (laughs) 



Participant: There’s a lot of different things.  



Interviewer: Okay. 



Participant: But uh, yeah, no, that all happened just during BUD/S so it wasn’t like (unintelligible). 



Interviewer: That can’t make it easy. Gosh.



Participant: Its whatever at this point (laughs). 



Interviewer: Yeah.



Participant: But It was quite the ups, ups and downs through the last year.



Interviewer: Yeah, would you consider yourself impulsive like do you have any tattoos..do you?



Participant: I have tattoos but they weren’t, they were very thoughtful and planned out. 



Interviewer: Okay, Okay.



Participant: The only thing impulsive maybe I think I’ve ever done was get married before I wanted to.



Interviewer: Okay. 



Participant: That’s about it (laughter).



Interviewer: Okay and then what do you think was the most challenging thing you did at BUD/S and feel like your hardest day and what motivated you to push through?



Participant: Uh, one (unintelligible). Uhm, I would say the first week back in my second class with 37, the one I ended up spending hell week with, like just getting back to the grind of it was probably was just that was just miserable. Just not in a good mood. But just uh, what helped me get through I don’t, I don’t know I just.. like I said just don’t think about, honestly I know that’s bad but you just don’t think you just do it. 



Interviewer: That’s how? Did you have any practices like mental, physical, spiritual things that helped you?



Participant: Uhm, I pray.



Interviewer: Talk to yourself? Pray?



Participant: Uhm, that’s pretty broad stuff.  



Interviewer: Yeah. 



Participant: Just, just whatever’s in the moment helps...



Interviewer: Okay.



Participant: really. 



Interviewer: Did you have any difficult decisions that you faced, uhm, that you had to struggle with like, uhm, running out classmates or turning in someone who cheated or didn’t do the right thing and what did you have to think about when you made those choices? 



Participant: Uhm, will I be able to trust him. Uhm, running through our house with live ammunition. And do I trust him to make the right decision when no one else is around. 



Interviewer: Can you give me an example? 



Participant: Uhm, meaning a time that happened?



Interviewer: Yeah. 



Participant: Uh yeah, fairly recently, uh a guy got flown home from the island because he was literally just saying like outlandish things like personal attacks on the instructors and he wouldn’t let it go. And then he was prior enlisted in the marine corps, he uh, he was like (unintelligible) in 2015 and that’s why I wanted to come here. And that’s why you want to get a job?



Interviewer: Yeah.



Participant: Just weird. 



Interviewer: Okay.



Participant: I had no, no qualms about turning in someone like that.  Not turning in 



Interviewer: Yeah.



Participant: But speaking the truth.



Interviewer: No that’s exactly what I was looking for, stuff like that cause that’s hard cause you know you’re making an impact on them. Uhm, why do you think you were successful in BUD/S?



Participant: Uhm, when you fail as much as I have in the last thing, uhm, pretty used to rebounding and uh experienced a lot of setbacks in college years so it's just like I’m going to get through this and I just, need to figure out how.



Interviewer: That is a great attitude.



Participant: It's always like a puzzle, so.



Interviewer: Yeah, so this is kind of asking the same question in a different way, did you notice anything different about all the people who didn’t make it? Like what made them so they failed?



Participant: I don’t know, they make excuses a lot.  



Interviewer: Okay.



Participant: Uhm, they tried to rationalize certain things and decisions they’ve made. And they claim things other like other factors that are not themselves. 



Interviewer: Yeah.



Participant: So, that’s about it.



Interviewer: What do you think, how did this experience of BUD/S change you as a person?



Participant: Sure a lot of people say that it has humbled them and it definitely has humbled me but I also have learned that I can't do it without my family or my friends or I, can't do it without those guys and uh I also learned like through the ups and downs you really have to know who you are as a person. And you have to have things to fall back on, concrete things that you know about yourself and ...



Interviewer: Wow, that’s pretty deep. So can you give me an example?



Participant: Uh, I know that I have to go to the gym at least three times a week or run 3 to 4 times a week to keep my mental sanity something like that. I have to read a book every three weeks. Three to four weeks. Or have to spend a certain amount of time outside. Solitude. Have to talk to my family, certain time, at least once every other day, stuff like that.



Interviewer: That’s good to know about yourself though. That’s awesome.



Participant: Kinda, kinda forced into it. Why aren’t you being successful, you gotta figure it out so.



Interviewer: Yeah, so the Navy has asked us to do this to figure out before people come to BUD/S what makes them successful. So we’re kinda throwing a wide net, is there anything else that you can think of I should’ve asked you? That might be the key to what makes people successful.



Participant: Uh, that’s a good question and I definitely have an answer, but I can't think of anything off the top of my head. Uhm, ask, I would ask about hobbies. Because there’s, uhm, a lot of people that read, there’s a lot of people that don’t, and there’s probably nothing that is similar between anybody maybe some things that are similar between guys like what they do in their free time but I'm willing to bet that is just a plethora of different things that is just all over the place. Yes we are all the same in some aspects but not ... I don’t know. 



Interviewer: No, that’s good. Nobody’s said that yet so that is, that is a good.



Participant: People always say like it's common men with an uncommon desire to succeed, and I heard someone say no it's uncommon people working in a common space, so. 



Interviewer: Hm, interesting, thank you so much.
