TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Daniel Williams

Date: 17AUG2020

Participant #: 5

Length of the Interview: 17:38

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Raver-Luning

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide



Uhh, is it ok if I record this interview?



Yes.



And what is your participant ID?



Uhh, five.



Five, great.  You get to this point, by the time you've done all these interviews and your brain is, hahaha...



Yeah



Sorry, where am I? What time is it? 



SIO: So easy questions first. Um, what was your starting class?



Uhh, 338



338. And, when did you end up joining 339?



Um, 3rd phase. I got rolled in 3rd phase.



Ok. Um, and, what kind of, caused the roll into (unintelligible)?



Um, I failed pistol qualification.



Ok.





Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Um, How many siblings do you have?



I have a younger sister and an older brother.



SIO: So you're a middle child?



Yes.



And so you said older brother?



Yes, he's not much older. About a year older than me.



Oh really?



Yeah we're really close.



Oh. and then, younger sister?



Yes.



And, how much younger?



Um,  let's see, she's 21, (unintelligible), so four years. three or four years.



SIO: And then what was kind of your parent situation growing up? Two parent household?



Yes, they're both still married.



SIO: Ok. Um, and what's your relationship like with your family?



Um, good. Um, no issues there, been pretty good, pretty well I’d say.



Ok. Close family?



Uh, Yeah for the most part. Close.







SIO: Any life changing events that happened in your life prior to coming to BUD/S?



 No, not really. Pretty normal.  I don’t know.



Ok. nothing super positive or super negative? 



Not that I can think of, no.



Or anything in between?



Not really. Uh.



Just pretty normal?



Yeah. 



SIO: What was kind of your life prior? College? Or? 



Uh, so, grew up playing baseball. Um, played in high school and college, um, then stopped playing. pretty much, just a lot, I did a lot of sports growing up.



Ok.



Yeah.



And then, college straight here? Or did you…?



So, no. I, I actually, um, stopped playing baseball, got out of college, um, moved to a different state.



Ok.



Um, and then, kind of was just doing oddball jobs, and then decided that I needed to do something with my life. And, decided to do this.



Ok.



Was kind of just random.



So it wasn't like a lifelong (unintelligible)-



No, I, I didn't even really know...I knew about Navy SEALs, but I didn't know anything more than that.



Ok.



I knew they existed. And uh, just decided to, just do it.



SIO: Ok. I'll ask you more about your family in just a second. About, tell me a little bit about your personality. Um, what's it like and how do you think it contributed to getting through BUD/S? 



Um, so for me personally, I don't really take things too seriously. I think, just, having fun, helped me get through this. Um, I mean, I know some people are pretty, pretty serious when it comes to doing this. But I just couldn't be serious about it.



Yeah.



  Had to have fun. Joke around. Um.



Do you think that’s the demeanor of most people? Or? 



Um, yeah, I’d say at least half of the guys are pretty, laid back, and have fun with it. 



SIO: Um,  describe what kind of, a little bit about your family background. I mean, military family at all? 



Um, so my grand-my grandpa was in the Air Force.



Ok.



Um, but, I mean, that didn't really have any, you know, impact on me joining.



Yeah.



I mean my dad wasn't in the military. Um, just, just kind of, randomly.   



Yeah.  so, um, any friends…?



No, um, I never even thought I would ever join the military. 



Ok. 



It wasn't something I ever thought I would do. Yeah, I don't have any friends that, um, close friends at least, that.



What year was it when you were like ok, that's what I'm gonna do? 



So, probably, I want to say, 2018.



Ok.



Um, yeah. 



And did you join right away?



No, so I kind of researched it a little bit.



Ok.   



And I knew I had to like, I already kind of, you know, worked out a lot. Didn't swim hard. 



Yeah,



I knew how to swim, cause I grew up in California.



Ok.



Went to the beach, but I didn't know how to, you know, swim for a long period of time.



Yeah. 



 Or anything like that. Um, I trained for a little bit, maybe a few months, and then just, um, went ahead, went ahead and enlisted. 

 

Uh, where did you grow up in California?  



Uh, Orange County.



Ok.



So like, Anaheim



Ok. 



(Unintelligible).



SIO: Um, what about your parent’s parenting style? Were they strict? Were they disciplined?  



Um, so my mom pretty strict, my dad, not so much. Uh, I mean, I went to like a, I went to a private christian school, growing up, for a few years. Um, but other than that, it wasn't like super crazy, but I would say my mom was on the stricter side.  



Yeah. it's interesting. Moms seem like they’re the strict ones.



Yeah.   



I think I'm like, I think I'm the stricter one in our house too. (Laughter) Don't know what that means. 



 SIO: But, Um, so, any like discipline, what did, were you put on time outs? Were you spanked? Like what was the (unintelligible) discipline? 

  

Um, I remember, she would, she would take things away, not let me go do things with friends, and um stuff like that. Um, maybe as a young child maybe I got spanked or something.  

Yeah. 



I don't.



Nothing too like… stands out?



No, no, no, nothing really, too crazy.



SIO: Ok. what about, um, did you move at all during your childhood years?



No, I, uh, lived in the same house, uh,  pretty much my whole life.



SIO: Um, what about your teenage years? Sports that you played, tell me a little about high school.



Baseball, football. My dad was always there to help me with that.



SIO: Um, How do you think being part of, kind of, those types of communities contributed to your experience here?



Um, I think it helped a lot. Um, cause there are some guys that I know that are in this program or were in this program that uh, didn't really play sports. 



Yeah. 



I think it was a little bit harder for them to, like, adjust to that type of uh, atmosphere, in terms of the team, and not being selfish, I guess. So, I think that helped a lot. Knowing that, you know, everyone’s got to do something, to help, you know, make this work.

 

SIO: Um, what about in the last five years of your life? So, you went to college. So, Where did you go to college?



 Uh, I went to a few different colleges. I got a scholarship to play baseball at Northwest Missouri State.



Ok.



Um, went there for a year. I played, didn't really like it. Kind of boring out there, and then moved back, went to (unintelligible, maybe general?) college, and then, following, I went to a school in California,  Cal State Dominguez Hills.   



Ok.



Um, and then I actually, just stopped playing baseball, was kind of just over it.



Yeah.



Kind of like, thought it was a dead end. And then uh, actually moved to uh, San Antonio Um, kind of just up and left. It wasn't really planned either. Kind of just, just kind of went out. I don't know.



And did you, so did you finish college here? and? 



Uh, no. I actually didn't finish.



Ok.



I, I have uh, just an associates degree. That's all I have.  



Ok. Ok, and then what did you do in San Antonio?  



I uh, well, actually my wife, uh, her family moved out there a few years before we did.

‘Cause her dad was born there, and then moved to california when he was younger. And then ended up moving back because he got a good job out there. Uh, I actually met my wife in middle school. Um, dated in high school, stayed together in college, and then we ended up moving out there.



And when did you guys get married? 



Um, 2018



Was that before you joined the military?



Yes. Year before. 



Any kids?



No.



Now, is she here, in San Diego? Or is she still in San Antonio?   



Uh, Not yet. She’s, she’s um, planning on moving out here in the next few months.



Ok.



Just waiting for her job to open up.



Yeah. what about um,  and so then, I’m sorry if I asked this. I guess (unintelligible).



No, it’s all good.



Your brain starts to go-



Yeah.



A little fuzzy. Um, when did you join the military?



Uh, 2018.



Ok.



Uh, september sometime.



And then bootcamp and straight here?



So I uh, I actually got rolled in Prep. So I, um, went to boot camp, went to prep, got rolled two classes because of a calf injury. And then came out here with 3-8, um made it all the way to 3rd phase and then got rolled. And am here now.



How did that, getting rolled in prep, do you think that impacted you? 



It was pretty, pretty, pretty horrible. I just, it was like, I didn't enjoy myself out there, nobody really does. 



Yeah.



It's pretty boring. Just got trapped. Um, but I think it helped me mentally, just going through hard things. Um, helps out a lot (unintelligible). 



SIO: Do you consider yourself impulsive at all?



Uh sometimes. Not in, not in all aspects, but in some, some things I guess. Um, just depends.



SIO: Yeah. what um, what would be an example of impulsive behavior for you? 



 Doing this. 



Yeah.



Um, I've always wanted to just, to do something with my life, you know? I felt like I wasn't really doing anything, um, I don't know, I just, I didn't want to live and die and there be no you know, nothing good to say about me. 



Yeah.



Or just, stuff like that.



SIO: Um, any tattoos? 



No tattoos.



Or anything like that? Any bunch of speeding tickets? Or?



No, I’ve only gotten one ticket





SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? (Holistic question) (Think about your hardest day or event at BUD/S)



Um, probably being away from my wife. 



Yeah.



That was one of them. And um, Other than that, I mean, it’s hard, but I mean, I feel like I was able to handle it pretty well.



Yeah. 



So



Um, what about with your wife? I mean, how did that kind of, did, was she, did you see her as a support system as you went through this? 



Uh, yes, no, definitely. She, she definitely helped me out a lot. Um, say, I've known her for so long, she’s always been around, and um, just being away, you know, was kind of tough. I've only seen here a handful of times in the last year. Yeah, she definitely helped me a lot. Cause, you know.



SIO: What motivated you to get through?  Did you feel like you were supported by the group?



Uh, I would say a few different things,  um, especially going into hell week. Uh, Definitely could not call my wife and tell her I quit, so I just wasn't going to do that. And then my, i would say my dad. There was no way I could, you know, let him down.



Would he have been let down?



No. he, it would have probably just let me down, you know, thinking that, I have this weird thing where I just want to, you know, make him proud, and i know no matter what I do, even if I didn't make it, he would have still been proud, um, just, I don't, I  couldn't ever see any quitting, having my helmet down on the grinder with his last name on there, just not, not something I would be able to do, honestly. I've never understood, I guess, I know why people quit but I just don't know how they do it. I couldn't bring myself to do it. So it's just a weird, weird thing.      



Yeah. 





SIO: were there any  practices  you utilized to get through this? Like Spiritual, mental, physical?



Uh, not really. Um, but I would say almost all of it is mental. Um, anyone can, can train and get to where they need to be, physically, to pass all the, you know, evolutions and whatnot. But it really comes down to either you want to do this or you don't. That's really all it is. I think a lot of people seem to forget, you know, being a SEAL isn't, you know, boats and logs and hell week, its, um, not that forever, there's an end to all of it, and then, you know, you start doing stuff that you'll end up using in the job.  



SIO: Was there any time where you had to make a difficult decision at BUD/S, um, whether it was an ethical or moral decision personally, or you watched somebody maybe cut a corner and you had to make a decision about what to do about it? 



Um, no I never really ran into that, um, and I'm not really sure what I would do, like, you know, just depending on the situation. Um, I’m not sure.





SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?



Um, I think it's just as simple as, just wanting to do it, not quitting. Just, that's really all it is. Just want to be, better I guess. 



Have you ever had that attitude about anything else in your life? Like (Unintelligible)?



Um, baseball for sure. I really worked really hard. Um, a lot harder than, you know, especially in high school, um, guys would go home and I would stay after and hit and do whatever. Just wanting to be the best, even though I know I wasn’t. Someone is always better than you. Um, you gotta have that, that attitude. So.   



SIO: Anything different that you noticed about the people that made it through BUD/S, and the people that quit specifically?



Um, well I know, it's weird, cause there's guys that are physically a lot, you know, more made out for this, and that don't make it. Um, I think a lot of it has to do with, you know, a lot of us are, are not, you know, the best at uh, you know, certain things, and we know failure and we’re able to accept that, and basically move on and want, you know, to be the best. And, like a lot of people that are, are good at certain things, almost everything, they're not used to that failure and they just don't know how to handle it. They've always been, you know, good at everything they do. So.    







SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How does this experience change you as a person, if at all?



            Um, I feel like I'm somewhat the same person. Um, probably would say, wouldn't say carefree, but just feel like before, growing up I was pretty, I would say I was a pretty good kid, didn't get into any trouble really. Uh, Didn't even drink until after i was 21. I just feel like I am a little more relaxed, because I was maybe more uptight growing up. Just trying to like, I had my head on straight, with school and baseball, um, I would just say that I'm a little more, like, yeah, laid back pretty much. Just kinda…



Anything that I didn't ask that you think would be important for us to know?  



Um, no, I feel like everything was, 



Feel like we covered it?



Yeah you got it all.  



Well I appreciate you taking the time, thank you. Congratulations  



Thank you.
