TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jonathan Savage 

Date: 12AUG2020

Participant #: 293

Length of the Interview: 12:00 minutes 

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch 

Participant (Code in black):



Ok, so I am going to ask you a series of questions and you can answer them the best you can. So, when did you start your BUDS class? 



 I got here to Coronado August of 2019 and I started first phase in September. 



Is this your first … Is this your first BUDS experience? 



Yes, this is my first time. 



Interview Guide

Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): How many siblings do you have?

Two younger brothers. 



What was your parental situation growing up? 



Uhh, my parents got divorced three years ago. 



Ok, what is … you have two younger brothers?



Yes 



What Sex? Oh, so they are both boys. Were your parents married up until? 



Yeah, yeah they were for pretty much my entire life. 



What was your relationship with them? 



It was good, still talk to them everyday. Pretty much everyday. 











SIO: What is the birth order?





SIO: What is the gender of each sibling? (align with birth order)







SIO: If you think of your life experiences, what might you describe as your crucible or life shaping experiences?

Not much. Umm, I had a pretty good job that I was in. Nothing catastrophic ever happened. Not a whole lot, just after high school I went to college and then I came here. 







SIO: How did those experiences factor into your experience at BUD/S?









SIO: How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

Umm, I am pretty stubborn, so umm, I came here to finish and I wasn’t just going to give that up pretty easily. So, uhh, I think that was a big part of it. 

















SIO: Describe your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community.  

No, umm, My grandfather, uncle, and cousin were all in the Navy. None of them were SEALs or worked in NSW. Umm, I didn’t really know any growing up. Uhh, pretty much I had heard about them as a kid. Umm, probably just movies or something when I was a little kid. Umm, what kind of got my attention about them when I was a little older was I heard the story of Neil Roberts. He was uhh, killed in Afghanistan in 2002. My mom went to high school with him. I thought it was a cool story and that inspired me.







SIO: Tell me a little bit about your childhood.  For example, how were you disciplined as a child?  How would you describe your parents parenting style? (spanking, timeouts, withholding toys, etc.).

I had pretty strict parents. Umm, 



Spankings? Timeouts? 



Not so much spankings, but timeouts for sure. Pretty strict curfews. Uhh, yeah. 













SIO: Tell me about your teenage years?  For example, did you move around?  Did you participate in a team sport or an activity with a tight knit community? (ask what specifically that sport or activity was)

Uhh, I grew up in the same town my whole childhood, but we moved houses. Uhh, lived in three different houses before I finished high school. 



Yeah, uhh, I played lacrosse in high school. Umm, I did that year round. Umm, that’s about it for that. I didn’t do any clubs or anything. 









SIO: What have you done in the last 5 years of your life (prior to BUD/S training)?  Would you consider yourself impulsive?  For example, do you have any tattoos?  

So I went to college. Uhh, I went to the University of Oregon for 4 years. Umm, played lacrosse there. Umm, that’s about it. Umm, after I finished there, before I joined the Navy, I just worked construction part time to make some money before I left. 

Were you in ROTC? 



No, I didn’t do anything like that. Just did the normal college thing.



Do you consider yourself impulsive? 



No



Do you have any tattoos?



No, no I don’t. 



Have to keep these to 15 minutes. I am just making sure. 

















SIO: What motivates you on a daily basis?















SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? (Holistic question) (Think about your hardest day or event at BUD/S)

Umm, overall, I guess just the grind of doing everything everyday. Very long days. Uhh, knowing that the next day was going to be just as hard. Uhh, in terms of a specific evolution I think the most challenging thing for me was pool comp in 2nd phase. I really thought that one was going to end my BUDS career. I struggled with that one a lot, but finally passed it one the 3rd try. 





SIO: What motivated to push through?  Did you feel like you were supported by the group?

Yeah, I definitely felt really supported by the group. Especially my family. Uhh, I knew that they supported me every step of the way and I just knew that I didn’t want to do anything else. So, uhh, I was just going to suck it up and do whatever they through at me. 







SIO: What practices (physical, mental, spiritual) did you utilize to push through the challenges?

Umm, I would say I did a lot of visualization. Especially for things like pool comp. Umm, just closing my eyes, taking a deep breathe, and thinking about what I needed to do. I was going to do it. That was probably the most important for me. 







SIO: When you made a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision?

Umm, I am not really sure about that one. 



So the example that is listed here is turning in a cheating classmate. Anything like that? 



Oh, umm, I was fortunate. I was never really put in a situation like that. Umm,  I never really had any big ethical decisions to make. 







SIO: Can you provide an example?









SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

I took a lot of time to prepare to get here. I definitely did my research before hand. I definitely had a good idea of what I was getting myself into and umm, I - I just went in to everyday knowing that today was not going to be day that I quit. 



Sort of just one day at a time? 



Sort of, and I - I just knew that I was never really worried about - about  quitting like ever. I never - umm, I never really had to talk myself off of a ledge. Uhh, there were definitely plenty of times that I did not want to be here, but I mean, whatever. You just got to do it.  







SIO: Did you notice anything different about those that did not make it?  If so, can you describe those differences?

Umm, well, there are always some guys you can take one look at and know he is not going to uhh maybe just physically or just know they are not ready. Uhh, they are just not mature enough. Or just uhh, there definitely were some guys that really surprised me and I couldn’t - I never would have guessed that they wouldn’t have. 



That they wouldn’t have



That they wouldn’t have made it. If you would have asked me I totally would have thought they would have. Umm, so its kind of hard because it is just a wide spectrum. Umm, I would just say maybe out of the guys that didn’t, maybe they just didn’t have real expectations. They didn’t really know what to expect and they thought it would be different. They didn’t think it would be as hard as it was. 













SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person?

Umm, uhh, well outside of the obvious that I don’t really like being cold and wet anymore. 



Hahaha



Uhh, that’s the big one. Umm, it’s definitely the hardest job I have ever had. It's giving me an appreciation for hard work and just being able to wake up everyday and - and uhh really, uhh, really grind. 



So is there anything else that I should ask you that helped you or hurt you about BUDS? 



Umm, not really. I thought BUDS was difficult, but it was totally doable. I don’t really see any reason why someone decent good shape can’t make it. Any able bodied dude. I think it’s just whether or not you want to be here. That’s it. 



Ok, well thanks. 



No problem. 



So you grew up in Oregon? 



I grew up in California. I just uhh
