TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jonathan Savage 	

Date: 11AUG2020

Participant #: Not specified (2020.03.04_03.23_01)

Length of the Interview: 

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide



Ok, so I am going to ask you a series of questions. We got 15 minutes to get through, so, umm, so it shouldn’t be too terribly long. Umm, When did you start your BUDS Class? 



Started 37, that was 



What?



Class 337



Ok, 



Uhh, that was last year in, February… Last year I think it was. 



February of 2019? 



So this, this is, this is not your first, uhh, oir is it your first BUDS experience?



Uhh, yeah, it is my first BUDS experience. I got rolled twice. Umm, now I am in 339.  







Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): Okay, uhm, How many siblings do you have?

I have 1 younger brother. 



So, it’s you and a brother?



Yes



What was your parental situation growing up? 

Uhh, my mom and my dad got divorced, uhh, around, when I was like 5 years old. They got divorced, and pretty much, after that, I grew up just with my mom. And my dad used to like travel alot. He wasn’t very present as physical, but he was like - like called a lot



So he called regularly? 



Yes 



What was your relationship like with both of them? 



Uhh, my mom was very close, she was pretty much like my mom and my dad at the same time since my dad wasn’t there that much. But with my dad, it wasn’t as close as with my mom, but it was a good relationship. 













SIO: SO what life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/s?

I’d say my mom and dad getting divorced would be one. Umm, I don’t know. I am having to think about it. Uhh, I mean, I didn’t grow up here in the US. I grew up in Columbia. So, I -growing up I got to see US and Columbia both because I’d travel back and forth. So I think that





SIO: So, How did those experiences factor into, or that experience factor into your experience now?

I think like in the type of people that you meet. You get to appreciate the difference in people. Like, everybody’s different and just because their different doesn’t mean, I don’t know, just … I’ll say you just get to learn a lot about different people. 











SIO: Uhm, How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

Uhh, I would consider myself a very quiet person. I think that that helps a lot here because sometimes leadership is trying to put out word and their are other people talking and saying stuff and it is just sound pollution. So, I think that that helped a lot. Also, I am a very person - I listen a lot. There is definitely a lot of attention to detail here, so I guess that helps a lot too. 













SIO: So, Describe your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community and so what made you want to do it, and some of the examples they have here are do you have any SEALs as family or friends or do you have any military family or friends? 

Yeah, so prior Navy, I did not know any Navy SEALs and the way I got like learn about this community was pretty much, so I was born here in San Diego or you see little camp down by the strand by those motor homes down there. I used to see the BUDs classes down the beach and that really got me interested. So, I grew up and started learning more and decided thats what I want to do. I didn’t want to do the same things my friends were doing, like finish high school and go to college. You know I wanted to do something else, something different. 

SIO: So, Tell me a little bit about your childhood.  So were you, specifically, how were you disciplined as a child? Like spanking, grounding? 

Uhh, I mean my mom was great. She was like, she was definitely very strict, but she was also very nice and kind and 



Did you get spanked? 



Uhh, early



Eary? 



I hardly remember a time I got spanked



So you got grounded? Timeouts? Things taken away? 



Umm, yeah she was like, like - I like a lot of sports, so if I got a bad grade, she might take sports away from me. Something like that. 







SIO: Did you move a lot?Uhm During your childhood or teen years?



Umm, yes, pretty much back and forth between the States and Columbia. 



So this area? San Diego and Columbia? 



San Diego, Yes. So I went to school there, but I spent all of my vacations here.  Summer, Christmas, all spent here.  





  So when you were a teenager, Did you participate in team sports or other activities.

Uhh, yes, I played for my soccer team, my volleyball team, and my basketball team in high school. And, I was into boxing and martial arts. 



So Martial Arts? 



Oh, yeah

SIO: What have you done in the last five years prior to coming to BUD/s? 

High school pretty much. I finished high school and came here. 



So you went from high school to enlisted in the Navy and came



Yes and came here to BUDS. I finished high school in 2018. 2018, I came here to San Diego and probably lasted like two months working out and then joined the Navy and came here to BUDS 





Do you consider yourself impulsive? 



I would not consider myself impulsive. 



The example in the question they ask is do you have any tattoos? 



I do. 



Is that it? 



That’s the only one I have. 



I think there is some literature that suggest that having tattoos is a sign of impulsivity. Probably dated, but uhh, 



I’d like to read that



Mehh









SIO: What motivates you on a daily basis?















SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? (Holistic question) (Think about your hardest day or event at BUD/S)

Uhh, I wouldn’t say its a day. Its like a week. I would say it would definitely be first phase. Its just like you’re super tired, you’re hurt, yeah, you’re drained, but you … and you have these test like physical evolutions like runs and swims. You start thinking you might not be able to make it and your like scared about getting performanced dropped. Especially when you’re hurt and injured. Having to do those things while you’re hurt and injured, I mean, you might not be able to perform. 







SIO: What motivated to push through?  Did you feel like you were supported by the group?

Uhh, I think like all the training and like me leaving Columbia and coming here because I knew I wanted to do this, I was just not going to let that be for nothing. Yeah, I was just not going to let me family down and myself down. And I was already here so, I was like this is my only option so







SIO: What practices (physical, mental, spiritual) did you utilize to push through the challenges?

Uhh, self talk, you see you have that voice in my head that would tell me that I have like a little more. I would have things in my head that would make me feel happy. I would think a lot about my brother and my mom. Yeah, thats it







SIO: When you made a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision?

What decision did you really struggle with? 

Hmm, 



The example that they give here is turning in a cheating classmate for example. 



Ok, yeah something in hell week. We were running boat and one guy was definitely not performing. He was not keeping up with us and it was either we slow down and have in in our boat and not perform or performing and eventually knowing that he would not be able to keep up with us and that he would get dropped. He definitely wasn’t one of the good guys in our class, so we decided as a crew that we were going to run him out. So we just sped up and he eventually ended up falling out. I’d say that was a hard decision. 



So what went through your mind when you made that decision? 



Uhh, I was thinking like was it the right thing to do. Maybe we should have slowed down and let him keep the pace or was him performing a good thing to do by making us not perform. 













SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

I think a lot has to be with the people that you met here and the relationships that you make. They definitely help a lot. And like I said before, I felt like I left behind me like a lot of stuff to come here and I was not going to let that be for nothing. 







SIO: Did you notice anything different about those that did not make it?  If so, can you describe those differences?

Yes, they were very, like before coming here, when we were at great lakes, they were very cocky, talk a lot, or be like oh yeah, I am an amazing guy. Yeah, they were pretty cocky, no humility. Uhh, immature. Yeah, I think those are the two big things I noticed, Cocky and immature. 













SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person?

Uhh, it definitely showed me that you can definitely like you and your mind can just do a lot of things. You might not be the fastest or strongest dude, but if you really think you can do it, you can. 





Uhh is there anything else that I should have asked you that helped you or hurt you through BUDS? 



Uh, I think that is it.



Ok, we’re done.
