TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jake Rude

Date:

Participant #: 94

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black)



I: I am going to have to sit really close to you, so I can hear all your responses. Easy question to start with, how many siblings do you have?

P: One

I: One sibling, okay, and what’s the birth order?

P: Uh, her then me.

I: Okay, so and it’s a sister?

P: Yes.

I: So if you think about your life experience, what can be described as your crucible or life changing experience?

P: Like specifically, like certain times that were difficult?

I: yeah, yeah, beyond BUD/S.

P: Uhm, I don’t know, I was uh, I guess in college I was working a lot and going to school, so.

I: Anything like in your childhood that might’ve happened that was a really difficult time or really difficult event?

P: Uhm, *pause* nothing that really sticks out.

I: Uhm what about your personality contributed to getting through BUD/S?

P: Uhm, I think I can be a little stubborn.

I: Yeah, so how do you think that played as being successful here?

P: Uhh they take you through something and maybe some guys were like uhh alright I don’t want to do that and like I said that there was a lot of stuff I didn’t want to do, but the though of them like… winning… uhh kept me from not like not not doing it.

I: Yeah… what about, can you talk a little bit about your childhood, describe what lead you to want to be apart of the SEAL community.

P: Honestly, like I went to the Navy recruiter like during college and I was just going to be like some kind of uhm, like gas turbine engineer or whatever because they make a lot of money back home when they like get employed by Jordan Power or something like that and uhh during, I don’t know like, what made me want to try it, but I knew it wasn’t like my first like intention I guess. Maybe I saw a poster in the recruiter office or uhh… I don’t really remember exactly what made me like take that PST to get that all started in the first place, but nothing like, uhm a lot of guys had been wanting to do this since they were like really little and like not me… really.

I: Yeah, and what age do you think you were like okay this direction?

P: Probably around college probably like uhh…

I: 18s….early 20s?

P: Like 20, 21.

I: Yeah. Tell me more specifically about your childhood like in your younger years, what was that like?

P: Uhm, I grew up in Georgia.

I: Okay.

P: Uhh, lived in the same place forever.

I: small town….big city..?

P: It wasn’t like big city for sure. It was more like a suburb mixed with like uhh we had like an area that was uhm very ethnic I guess.

I: Okay, what about your parents parenting style. How would you describe that?

P: Uhm my mom’s probably the sweetest person in the world.

I: Yeah..

P: Very uhm, uh, very caring, very like sweet. Uhm *pause* definitely like uhm I remember my dad uh I was kind of like scared of him when I was like younger. Not that he did anything that was scary that I remember, but he wasn’t around a lot as I was growing up uhm so… I was kind of like the guy in the house like early on…

I: So what about discipline, how were you disciplined as a child? Were you spanked, were you put in time out, did things taken away from you?

P: Even my mom would say I didn’t do a lot of things like uhh wrong and like intentionally or anything like that, but when I did I got spanked, but I never really like, she said there were never any like times you did wrong things on purpose, ya know?

I: Okay what about your teenage years, what were they like?

P: Uhm, I… was doing a lot of I guess a lot of extra stuff to make money like cutting grass, landscaping like stuff. Working on like neighborhood like lawn mowers and uhm and I got I started like helping out at like a garage when I was like 16… Like a car garage… and… spent a lot of time outside, a lot of time fishing. Said doing stuff like outside like floating down the river with my buddy.

I: What about did you do any sports?

P: Oh yeah like from when I was five years I was playing like basketball, soccer, uhm, I started playing golf when I was like 11. 

I: Did you those in high school as well?

P: I played basketball like my first year of high school and then I played lacrosse like my last three years of high school and I played lacrosse in college as well.

I: Uhm, Anything besides sports that you did that might’ve been apart of a tight knit community?

P: ...uhm...no I don’t if I was ever really like, I had a tight group of friends like maybe four guys like that I was like, like we hang out like every day type deal. And we like played sports together, but I was never apart of like a specific group. Like I was never in boy scouts or I was never, uhm, in something like that where I guess you find like that camaraderie. 

I: What about in the last five years, so between high school and like here, what has your life been like?

P: Uhm, well I was in the fleet before this, so I came here the first time and uhh I ended up getting dropped in third phase uhm, towards like the end of first phase and then I went to the fleet, became a corpsman, went to Camp Pendleton for a couple of years and then I was about to get out, uhm, I had like I was like getting everything ready to go like getting school situated and living situated and my buddies who I guess are in the community kept like harassing me to try and come back before I like got out for good and I was like alright whatever, so I submitted a package to come back in. Ended up getting picked up even though like, I don’t want to get into too much detail, but like the big Navy rules like they only accept people in certain year groups and my year was like closed up, they weren’t like accepting like anyone, I got lucky I guess that they allowed to come back and try again.

I: Yeah...How do you think that uhm, kind of, getting rolled and completing first phase before and then coming back like how does that effect your time now to get through?

P: So… getting dropped the first time like really sucked, uh, I was really close with the guys in my class. We still are like really close. Uhm, a handful of guys we still talk to all the time, we hangout all the time, still. Uhm, maybe its uhh… *pause* I don’t know maybe you have an idea about something and then or about how things are gonna go and then it doesn’t quite work out how you planned and then works out a different way I guess.

I: Okay, uhm just a different track of questions I guess, but do you consider yourself impulsive?

P: uhm…. Like how?

I: Uhm impulsive type behaviors would be like getting tattoos...getting speeding tickets.

P: No I… No I… No I am very like… I do a lot of research before I buy stuff for like camping or hiking or fishing or stuff like that. I hardly ever act on a whim

I: Yeah… any tattoos?

P: No.

I:I know it’s a weird question

P: No no

I: There’s a reason we ask the question.

P: No yeah for sure.

I: what motivates you on a daily basis?

P: ...uhm… I don’t know if I like constantly have a specific that like motivates me like the same thing ever day like its just something like you gotta do.

I: What about when you think, specifically about BUD/S now, what do you think was the most challenging, or component, or event of BUD/s?

P: of this time at BUD/S….most challenging… *pause* I am trying to think cause I mean I had done everything before and it’s a lot easier a second time like I had no excuse to not like this time I had no excuse not to like do anything almost like perfect I guess, uhm, but *pause* I guess… I don’t know I can’t think of anything specific like it all kind of like bunches up… 

I: *laughs* blends together…

P: Yeah… 

I: You’ve been so sleep deprived for the past several months.. Uhm anything like I am going to return what motivates you on a daily basis, but was there anything specific that motivated you to push through BUD/S, specifically this time.?

P: Yeah, uh my like buddies I have.

I: The ones that have gone through… now what about being here, was there support within the group, your class, was it peer or was it more individual..?

P: Yeah uh yeah there were a couple guys that I was like friends that I’m like pretty close friends with in this class… 

I: Are there any practices that you utilize like physical, mental, spiritual, to get through BUD/S?

P: Uhm, one thing that kind of like helps me relax I guess is like just, at the end of the day, just kind of like doing what you want. For a while I had given up caffeine just because I got somewhat like dependent on it where I was like getting like really bad headaches and I was like I kinda of like alright whatever, I gave it up cause its kinda like a bad thing, but I really love sweet tea and like soda like Dr. Pepper, so when I started doing this I was like alright I gotta do stuff that’s gonna make me like happy supposed like its the little thing that makes, uh, that makes not great times better..

I: Uhm, can you think about a time you had to make a difficult decision here at BUD/S, uhm, what went through your mind when you made that decision?

P: … a difficult decision..uh.. 

I: Could be like an ethical type decision or like a moral type decision… 

P: Uhm, I don’t know if, there’s not like, you don’t have like a lot time to spend thinking , you just kind of like, you just like do the kind of like the first thing that you think of like in a situation. So say they told you go to hit the surf, and you’re like and ya could get away with not hitting it or not like jumping in the water, but only you have like a half second or maybe like two seconds to think about doing it or not, so you just end like doing it just cause… 

I: Uhm, why do you think you were successful completing BUD/S?

P: Uhm, cause uhh, I think everyone is like lucky to be here like very fortunate to have a chance to like do this cause like, there’s tons of people that wanna come here, but uh I say I’m luckier than, I’m more fortunate to be here then everyo-, than a lot of people or most people here I guess. Its like a shot that I like shouldn’t have.

I: Yeah, so did that like second chance or whatever you wanna call it, did that really drive you this time around?

P: Yeah, uhm, there wasn’t like times where… I mean everyone, everyone like no matter what they tell you, everyone like thinks about quitting, not necessarily actually doing it, but you think about how nice it would be not to be doing what you’re doing currently, so yeah that was kind of like… uh… that’s what I was thinking about. Like man it would be nice not to be like this cold right now or.. Uh  nice to just like go home, uhm, and then I guess in like tougher times, you just like think about your buddies like what your buddies would like say to you right now or do or what would they be doing if they were here and that just makes you like uhh not care at all..

I: Yeah… did you notice if there was anything different about the people that made it versus the people that didn’t?

P: ...uhm I know a lot of who were like very… talkative… uhm as far as their… like skill or there, uh, people who thought they were going to make it, or were just very outspoken about how successful they were going to be like didn’t quite make it. And people who were like maybe more realistic… uhm… like usually were the types of guys I saw sticking around.

I: Great, you’re finished, thank you. Congratulations

P: Thank you, I’m sure you’re tired.

I: No, its great.
