TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Tom Evans

Date:

Participant #: 68380

Length of the Interview: 22:34

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):



Okay, is it okay if I record the interview?



Yup. 



Great your participant IDs are 68 and 380.



SIO: So easy questions first, when did you start BUD/s?



Uhh do you mean like date or class?



Class.



338.



And when did you move into 339?



Uhh so in second  phase uhh right after OC8 or Pool Comp, like midway through, uhh, they didn’t have enough drager rigs for everyone uhh we were like seven guys heavy and they admin rolled it wasn’t like performance or medical  roll it was like uhh too many people sorta thing. SO uhh they picked seven guys based on performance like uhh I’m not great at running or like swimming. I’m like one of the lower performers on that uhh so they chose seven of those guys uhh for 339 but.



Okay.



So that’s how I got rolled. 



That’s kinda tough haha.



Yeah haha.



Umm well we’ll talk about that more umm.



SIO: SO siblings, let’s talk about how many siblings you have.



I have three.



Okay three. SIO: And whats the birth order?



Umm I’m actually a twin.



Oh really?



He’s actually uhh at BUD/S with me.



Is he?



He’s not in my class anymore, but hes uhh he got rolled from 340. He’s in second phase right now.



Okay great, so hes in 340?



Uhh he was.



Oh he’s in 341?



He got hurt so he’s, I’m not sure what class he’s in.



Okay. That’s interesting so are you guys the oldest out of the?



Yes uhh. We’re both 19.



SIO: And then uhh, whats the younger sibling order?



She’s 15 right now and then the middle she’s uhh, she just turned 18.



Okay.



Two sisters and one brother.



Okay so brother. And how old are your sisters again?



The middle one she’s uhh 18.



Okay.



And the younger one is 15.



SIO: Okay great ummm. And then  parents, are your parents together?



Yes.



SIO: And that’s same your whole life?



Yup.



SIO: And what’s your relationship like with your parents?



Uhh it’s a great, great uhh relationship. My dad’s actually a SEAL.



Is he, okay?



My mom’s a nurse umm uhh we, I was born in San Diego uhh been here my entire life uhh I, I love my parents. They uhh my dad teaches me a lot, like he’s uhh I think he’s really proud. My mom she’s uhh she raised us like she was a nurse and then she left that for a bit uhh raised until about four years ago and then got back into it. SHe went to college again.



Okay great.



SIO: And is your dad still in the military?



Uhh he retired about a year and a half ago.



Okay but you guys got to stay here the whole time? Okay great.



SIO: Okay now umm was he gone a lot?



He was until I think about like 9. I think the last deployment he went on was about 10 years ago.



Okay.



Ever since then he’s done uhh little trips here and there, but uhh he’s predominately been here.



Okay great.



At home.



SIO: SO have you gotten to be like uhh here at this training zone prior to all this?



I uhh he didnt, he didnt really tell me much, but I , I’ve been on this base before a ton as a kid when I was like 11. Umm I did like uhh a big part  of why I like or uhh wanted to be a part of this is this is because how I grew up umm I grew up around military. Like my grandpa, my Dad’s dad he’s a green beret. My mom’s dad was my age when he got drafted into Vietnam.



Okay



Umm just something I knew I wanted to do umm it. Like exposure umm i think umm like I’ve definitely been around like a lot of SEALs I think thats a lot of the reason why I wanted to do it.



Well talk about umm, I’ll ask you all the later questions so we’ll hold off I’ll you about that later haha.



SIO: ANy life changing events happen prior to coming to BUD/S? Either positive or negative?



Umm like death or anything?



Yeah, I mean like they could even be positive like something that stands out in your mind.



Not really, I mean umm uhh I can’t really think of anything uhh i mean uhh, even joining the Navy that was a rough time uhh. Me and my brother couldnt get in uhh we got disqualified from MEPs. Uhh so when I graduated high school in 2018  I just, me and my brother were just in limbo til like half a year, trying to get in like it was medical umm we both had like childhood asthma as a kid uhh they gave us a lot of problems for that uhh and it was like uhh like I didnt know what to do because I’ve wanted to do this for so long umm so it was a rough time I think so uhh all I could think of.



Yeah.



SIO: SO with that you both were struggling to get the medical clearances, I mean what were you doing while you were waiting for all that?



Uhh I got a job. I worked at  a restaurant, My brother was working at uhh Walls, we were just working out uhh going to work. About it uhh. It was definitely tough uhh really rough. My mom was uhh telling me you gotta sign up for college and I knew I wanted to come here and I got uhh a scholarship to go to SDSU umm I kinda like gave that up to come here. Finding out that I couldn't join was really uhh disheartening for me. 



SIO: SO what kinda got you to get the clearances to come..



It took a while, but uhh we got a waiver umm but we took like four umm lung tests, tested our breathing, medicine and all this stuff and we were finally in the clear and they gave us waivers and we went to MEPs in December  and we shipped out to bootcamp in February. 



Okay umm.



SIO: And did you guys start in the same class?



We did. We btoh finished Hellweek together umm he got injured after Hellweek so he got rolled and he got hurt again so he got rolled a month ago and got rolled again yeah.



SIO: Tell me a little about your personality and why you think that contributed to you getting through BUD/S.



Umm definitely really umm persistent I’d say. Umm in high school umm I got like a 4.23 GPA being like a high umm doing like tough stuff if that makes sense uhh. Like uhh I’m also really timid uhh I like really quiet, uhh I like I love the saying “being a quiet professional” like uhh not talking to anyone umm like knowing what I’m doing and doing something really meaningful and big.



Yeah.



SIO: So umm obviously you said your Dad was a SEAL, btu anyone else in your family or was that your main motivator for wanting to become a SEAL?



Umm say it again.



SIO: So you said your Dad was  a SEAL, anyone else in your family that’s a SEAL or special operations or Special Forces or



Umm my Grandad was Army Special Forces, he’s a Green Beret. Uhh that definitely uhh having that and my Dad and my Dad’s friends I treat them like uncles I’ve known them for so long like a lot of military umm like every male figure in my family was military soo I something really wanted to do.



SIO: Was umm any other option that you considered in the military besides SEAL or was this all you wanted to..



Umm I was really like big in the water umm when I was like two my Dad had uhh taught us how to swim. Uhh when we were like eight my brother had already made the club swim team. SO we were really big in swimming and water so umm. Of course my grand- my grandpa was in the Army so like I never really considered that umm I kinda umm wanted to do like the hardest thing, the best thing, the most challenging thing umm. You have like the Green Berets and like the PJs and all the other ones I really wanted umm the toughest one, the hardest one and the most rewarding one umm revolving around teamwork being a good teammate and being a good man overall.



SIO: Umm a little bit more about your childhood, how were you disciplined as a child? 



Umm my parents were really strict but umm strict in a loving way like umm I knew it was just disciplining umm they did it out of love umm I kinda got that vibe from them umm.



SIO: Were you spanked or were you?



I was I was. All that stuff, my parents, I remember what they told me like no Cs no even Bs only As like even in preschool like strive for the highest umm like a bi, big portion of who I am today I thank them for it. It definitely umm really helped me strive for big goals ya know.



SIO: So what about, you lived in San Diego, you didn't move at all?



No I never moved. 



SIO: WHat about your teenage years, did you participate in sports?



I did. 



SIO: WHat sports did you do?



In high school, I did wrestling and cross country.



SIO: Umm which was there one you liked over the other?



Uhh I definitely liked cross country more, but cross country I definitely enjoyed like umm I was overweight as a kid until freshman year I did wrestling and I kinda lost a lot of weight and kinda got fitter over my high school years. Uhh I just uhh I loved uhh I feel in love with competition and just being challenged with uhh like cross country like umm when you're racing and you’re next to the other guy and you’re just racing and at the end your toe to toe I just kinda love that feeling of where you just sprint ahead of him and having more heart and even in wrestling like uhh the nervousness of going against someone before a match uhh I just really fell in love with being competitive and winning and uhh basically it. 



SIO: Tell me uhh tell me about the last five years leading up to BUD/S, high school and what was in between high school.



Umm I graduated in 2018 and about a month before a month or two before I graduated I went to the Navy recruitment office and got the paperwork going and uhh the whole thing about the medical after a while it worked out, just working out really hard, uhh got a job uhh and it was a really big deal uhh deal for my family. We didn’t have anything to do and we didn't want to go to college it was really the only thing we wanted to do and we finally got in. 6 months about from when I got in to when I graduated.



Yeah .



About right after high school.



SIO: And then you went to bootcamp and then straight here. Do you consider yourself impulsive at all?



Uhh not really. I like to know what I uhh what I get into a lot of times.



SIO: uhh any tattoos, speeding tickets?



No, no.



SIO: What do you think the most challenging component of BUD/S was?



Excuse me?



SIO: What do you think the most challenging component of BUD/S was?



Umm you mean like a certain thing or like?



Whether it was a certain day or something more extended?



For me it was definitely the grind like umm going from like a high school setting where yeah I have to wake up early and study for a certain essay or test and coming here umm getting your butt kicked everyday and umm and then if someone would ask me the hardest thing for me It’d be like Hellweek.



Yeah.



Hellweek was definitely really tough umm its like for me like normal days during first phase you wake up umm and like at the end of the day you get to be like yeah I get to take a warm shower and eat a lot of food and then Hellweek is just like I’m staying here until like I finish umm like Tuesday night you’re like umm you’re shivering umm like I can’t feel my feet anymore umm I’m chaffing umm I’m so tired I can’t really stand up and you’re just like oh my god I just gotta keep going like umm.



SIO: What motivated you to keep pushing through it?



Umm definitely like umm having just like grit like definitely frew up playing sports that need a lot of grit like wrestling umm requires a lot of heart. And my family umm my dad my mom umm i feel like umm growing up in this kinda environment umm I couldn’t come home if I wouldn’t umm succeed. Umm I felt like uhh I couldn’t see my famly again if I failed umm.



SIO: Did you feel like the group like here supported one another and you through?



Like uhh the guys uhh I definitely couldn’t have made it through without em like certain people here especially from coming from and being young  during this experience and some of these guys umm are 10, 12 years older than me and having so much more experience they defi italy helped me out. I couldn’t umm have done uhh be where I’m at without.



SIO: Umm any physical, spiritual or mental practices that you utilize to get through BUD/S?



Umm I’m catholic uhh I prayed a lot umm uhh there were moments during Hellweek and even in the Island where I  where I thought there was no way I imma fail something like a testgate or Hellweek I, I  look up to God and prayed to Him, He uhh  definitely feel like it helped me through a lot of hard times even like getting getting to Bootcamp or getting through that rough patch after high school  to get here umm I definitely do have a lot of faith. That definitely helped me out.  



SIO: What about was there ever a time where you had to make a difficult decision or like observe somebody or have to make like an ethical or moral decision here uhh at BUD/S or see someone kinda cheat the system a little bit and you had to make a decision to address it or that situation you’re in. 



Umm not really that I can recall, but umm  like cheating like uhh I can’t really think of anything maybe like uhh I can’t really think of anything like morally a situation here.



SIO: Was somebody trying to cut corners or something like that?



Emm not that I can remember uhh maybe in like Helweek some guys put padding like on their head like their hat so they don’t lose as much hair uhh I didn’t, uhh I didn't think much of it. 



Yeah.



I just uhh I just always kinda thought like do the right thing uhh help everybody out, be for the guys.



SIO: Umm why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

   

Umm just the I’ll just never quit uhh there’s moments like uhh how uh how am I gonna keep doing this, but you just do em. Like uhh you definitely like in the beginning I was definitely like scared but everything was so big and there was so much I had to go through but I kinda just put my head down and said “bring it on”.  You know like what else more can you do to me.



SIO: Why was quitting such a none option for you?



Umm one was just my family like umm even if I was tired of it umm just that legacy of my family like uhh umm I think my Dad told me me and my brother I think Sunday or Saturday night, Saturday night or Sunday morning that he was going to be on the berm Friday when we secure whether or not, if we’re there or not. I just umm that was a really big motivator umm when I was in that dark void kinda spot like umm do it for the love of my family like my mom and my dad and not just for them but for myself like being, not having like you can’t put a price on being  able to live with yourself I think that was a big part.



SIO: What do you think the difference is between uhh those that are successful with this and not medically or physical, but with those that quit?



Uhh just the refusal to give up and just like uhh not being afraid to tackle what's behind  the door that you’re about to face. Like not being afraid of any challenges or obstacles or pain that uhh like just not being afraid of what's behind the door that you’re about to open.



SIO: Umm hows this experience changed you as a person if at all?



I definitely think I’ve matured like a lot in the past 7 or 8 months uhh I came here I definitely uhh was a procrastinator in high school umm I didn’t really have as much umm I still have some problems with it but I definitely didn’t have as much situational awareness umm as when I came here now I think I just uhh trying to be like uhh wanting to be squared away and being a good person and being a good student and uh one day hopefully be a good operator in the Teams.



 SIO: Uhh anything else you think I should’ve asked you, but I didn’t ask you?



 I think that’s good.



Haha great that’s everything.



Thank you,



Thank you, congratulations.
