TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jesse Hall

Date: 23 AUG 20

Participant #: 119

Length of the Interview:  19:41

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):



Okay so I have a series of eight questions with some sub parts. 



Okay 



several of them uh we got about 15 minutes to try and get through all of them. So ya know if you can uh try and be through, but also somewhat concise. 



Sure. 



Alright, but if we don’t get through everything that’s fine too. 

So when did you start uh BUD/S? 



So I went to BUD/S a long time ago in 2008 with class 272, didn’t make it through that time. 



Were you rolled or? 



No, I was dropped for disciplinary reasons and then I came back in March of 2019 with class 338 and I got performance rolled during that class and that’s what brought me to 339.

 

Okay uhh 2008. How many siblings do you have? 



I have two, an older brother and a younger sister. 



So you have a brother, you and sister. And uh what about your parental situation? Your parental situation growing up? 



They’re still together, still alive. 



Mom and dad? 



Yes. 



Umm what’s your relationship with them like? 



Uh its pretty good, I guess its like hasn’t been great since I’ve been in the military for awhile and I’m not as close as I used to be with them and we have different political views so 2016 didn’t help, but we are in good standing uh solid relationship right now.



So what life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/S?



Uh there were several. Not making it through BUD/S was pretty life changing in 2008. It was the first time I had ever been held responsible for my actions. Umm 2009, I got divorced which was emotionally stressful and that 2009 was a rough year, [laughs] I got robbed that year too. Um other challenges in my life, I went to college in 2013, first of my family to go to college so that was that was a whole adventure, ended up going really well. And also, I used to be a competitive endurance athlete and I’ve ran some really hard ultramarathons.



How does that stuff all factor in to your experience at BUD/S in terms of maybe how you did?



Absolutely, so just dealing with the emotional stressful things, I knew BUD/S wouldn’t be as emotionally stressful as getting divorced or getting robbed or, or something like that. But then as far as physical challenges and intellectual challenges I knew that they would be similar to ultra running and college so, so I picked those things to prepare for this training. 



How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S



Kind of worked out nicely, I’m a workaholic



This is participant ID 119



It, it worked out nicely, cause I’m a workaholic and this, BUD/S, is a, not a 9 to 5 job it's like a 16 hour day type of thing. Um. Can you repeat the question one more time please?



Just how do you think your personality contributed to your experience here?



Um I, I don’t like the, the, I’m not one that like thinks about myself first, I’m always trying to figure out, what is, what can help who the best, and it turns out that’s incredibly applicable to this training. Cause it keeps you distracted from your own hardships, and it helps the class succeed more, so it, so my personality fit pretty well for this training. 



So, describe your background that lead you to pursue becoming a SEAL. Like, do you have any SEALs as family members or friends, or any military friends family, or how did you, what motivated you to?



I had an uncle who retired from the Army, he’s a lieutenant colonel. Then my brother, he’s a gunnery sergeant in the Marine Corps. And so service was always like a, it wasn’t unusual in the family, but ultimately I hate to say it but, at the time like, the SEALs were in the news a lot and there were movies and video games and it was, everybody knew what they were, and everybody knew that they were considered the best. So that’s what originally drew me to it and, and now it's more like I, I see the effectiveness that the community has, and now it's more like a, a draw to service, and how I can do the most with my time here. 



So tell me a little bit about your uh, we got a few questions about your childhood, growing up, events, um. How were you disciplined as a child?



Um, get spanked. 



Spanked? 



Yep. 



And I assume everything else, to, like grounding?



Um, they really didn’t ground me a lot but they would take electronics away, that, that was another thing. 



Did you move a lot in your teen years, childhood, teen years?



No. 



Any?



Zero. Zero to eighteen I was in the same house. 



When you were in ah, junior high, high school, did you participate in, in any uh team sports?



I did ah-



Or in any kind of team activities?



Yeah, so ah, football, wrestling, and track and field. I guess track and fields, running, I guess(unintelligible) but football, yes.



Um, anything else, um?



Team oriented, I, I guess.



Anything academic, um, oriented, team-oriented?



Yes, in in high school I was in the orchestra, played the cello. I think that’s it really. 



Okay. What have you done for the last, in the last five years of your life prior to BUD/S now?



Um, I, I finished up college two-thousand and sixteen. And, after that I worked for an engineering firm in New York City. I was a marine engineer diver.



So you worked for a marine engineering firm in New York City?



Yes.



Then-



And I was a marine engineer diver, so I picked that job specifically for, for this but, um.



So what did, was that a civ-that was, in the Marines?



No



So it was just a civilian job



It was just a civilian job. So the marine engineering part we did waterfront engineering so docks, piers, seawalls, wharfs like the whole harbour area of new york we'd we would, I had a commercial diving certificate, uh license, uh yeah certification excuse me and so we would go dive the structures and swim back down uh then write a report on them and put repairs recommendations stuff like that  



That was like in the Hudson or the East River?



Yes, both, yup... and he's giving them the plan of the day, but um yeah it was... (unintelligible 10:38-10:41)... on that we were a four or five man dive team for those things.



So you  were in the navy before…?



Yes



So you went to BUD/S in 2008? 



Yes



And then what happened after BUD/S?



I was an aircrewman. So I, BUD/S didn't work out I went to aircrew school in Pensacola Florida. Uh after that I got stationed in Oklahoma uh I flew on  E-6B Mercurys for three years, got out in 2012, went to college from... 



16?



Yeah 2016 went to work for an engineering firm from 2016 to 2018 and then uh rejoined the Navy after that.



Where in Oklahoma?



Uh right near Oklahoma state base called Tinker AFB



I grew up in Tulsa so.



Oh really? Really? I miss there. I love that town. I loved it.



I couldn't wait to leave 



Haha



I grew up there uh from um fourth grade to highschool. Um would you consider yourself impulsive?



No no.



Do you have any tattoos?



No



Apparently a measure of impulsivity I didn't know that. What was the most challenging component of BUD/S?

Uh first phase, the physical grind of it all. I, I thought I trained well with all the ultra running but this was more of like a whole body wear down and maintaining joints and things like that was the the hardest part for me. Especially cuz I’m older.



Huh?



Especially because I’m older.



Yeah. So what motivated you to push through?



Uh a couple things. Knowing that I kinda spent my whole life trying to get here was a big motivator like I didn't want to waste time. I didn't want to waste all that time. My my wife um she is totally bought into the idea and I didnt want to let her down and um the comradery, the comradery. 



What kinds of practices did you use physical, mental, spiritual whatever uh to get through challenges?



For buds specifically one thing that really helped me was telling myself I had no other options. It was either progress and get through or eh there were no other options. I literally told myself either they’re gonna haul out on an ambulance or I'm gonna get through. 





When you made difficult decisions during BUD/S um what went events or what went through your mind uh making the decision and what kind of decisions did you struggle with uh the examples that they have here are running classmate out or turning in someone for cheating



We, I’ve had a couple of, so I think of it as a couple of different contexts, the first one was like if we all made it through and we’re working together can I trust this person? That was the major way that I made decisions or that another one was did this person uh compromise the class with their actions? Specific examples what we had a guy who stayed out too late drinking didn’t make it back for curfew like I ended up turning him in and he got in trouble with the class because he was a liability to the class and like screwing us over and a few had gotten caught. So those were some examples of those



So you think about not just how it hurts them but how keeping them in hurts everybody else



Yeah like the long term picture, and even like on deployments like can I trust this person ethically because there’s a magnifying glass on the community right now, so all those things factor in



So why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S, I mean you’ve already sort of given me some of that, but is there anything like?



Uh preparation, then another big thing is um I don’t know this might sound weird but like having people like you is is I mean it’s important because they’re less likely to wanna run you out of [unintelligible] So being cooperative and a team player were big [unintelligible] for that



Did you notice anything different about the people that didn’t make it than the people who are still here?



Um I’d I’d say for the most part its like the seriousness from which they approach training, yeah there there are a few guys who are still jokesters who don’t like take this too seriously but for the most part guys are much more focused than those who didn’t make it through



Has this experience and if so has it changed how has it changed you as a person?



Uh much more aware of strengths and weaknesses. This training is amazing at determining those things. Um and confidence like if you can make it through this you can make it through pretty much anything, anything



Is there anything else that I should of asked you, that um helped you or hurt you in getting through this process or did we cover everything?



Um I guess I guess I found that that age did play like a big factor



It did?



Yes, yes, it takes a lot of time for the older guys, like a lot of maintenance time versus a lot of the younger guys who are whose bodies are more resilient and I I think that’s why there’s so few guys that are 30 that make it through



I mean the cap is what 30, the cap might be like 30



It uh it is, you have to get an age waiver after 30, so there there are 3 of us who had to get that to be here so it’s definitely a young man’s game



Well believe me it just gets worse



Yeah and the very last thing which kinda going back to I think the seriousness in how some people approach training is like reflective of their level of maturity, like I was I was pretty surprised by how mature most of my classmates are.



Okay



I think that’s it



Well, congratulations on making it through



I appreciate that
