TRANSCRIBER NAME: Brad Alexander

Date: 16 August 2020

Participant #: 58 / 357

Length of the Interview: 9:41

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Dixon

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide



When did you start your BUD/S class and is this your first experience? Who did you start with?

	My first BUD/S experience, yes. But, I started with class 337. 





Then you rolled to 338 or did you skip right to 339?

	No, end of 38 and then 39. 





How many siblings do you have?

	One older sister and one younger sister.





Were your parents married, separated or divorced?

	Uhh.. Married until right before I left for the Navy.





So you were 18, 19?

	18





What is your relationship with them?

	Uhh.. me and my mom are super close, me and my dad had a little bit of a rough patch, I guess you could call it, its getting better again. 





Did you have any life changing events prior to BUD/S? Whatever you think is life changing.

	Uhh… not really that I could recall. 

What about your personality do you think progressed you through BUD/S? What helped you?

	Uhh.. being stubborn, probably. Seems to be a pretty common theme. 





What made you want to be a SEAL, did you watch a movie, know someone in the military? How did you even know about it?

	Uhh.. I was pretty young, maybe about 8 or 9 and we were at its called a balloon fiesta in Mexico and the leap frogs actually jumped in and landed and I was like that looks super cool and then and my dad taught me about a little bit more of what they actually did and that was just kind of like part of like their shore duty so I learned more from that way and from then on I was pretty set. 





Tell me about your childhood, how did your parents discipline you? Did they give you a time out, did they make you do push ups, did they spank you?

	Uhh.. I got spankings when I was younger and then I guess as I got older they’d take my phone and ground me kind of deal. 





And then did you move a lot as you were growing up?

	No





Then tell me about your teenage years, were you on team sports or were you with a tight knit community with church or boy scouts or...?

	I played football and baseball since T-ball since I was super young and then once I got into highschool kind of started to playing around, I did track, and powerlifting, and basketball.





Were any of those teams like really tight?

	Uhh.. our football team was





And then what did you do in last 5 years of your life prior to BUD/S? Did you finish highschool?

	I did.





And then what?

	So I uhm.. Five years ago I was in 8th grade.





Okay so after high school you enlisted right away?

	Yeah





Did you enlist for the SEALs?

	Yes





Would you consider yourself to be impulsive? Like your decision to join the SEALs have you thought about it a lot or did you just decide to do it?

	Uhm… I had thought about it but deep down I had known that is what I wanted to do. I guess kind of a little bit of both I uh, from that day uhh I knew yeah I wanted to try to do it but then I guess I kind of doubted myself along the way some so I uhh thought against it or weighed the options but.





Okay, so do you have any tattoos or kind of binge drink or anything like that?

	No





Okay so you’re not really impulsive.

Okay so think about your hardest day at BUD/S? What was that?

	Uhh… Probably getting rolled for the second time





What helped you or motivated you through that?

	Uhh… Having people that I was pretty close with already get rolled at the same time and just knowing, yeah I am not with my original class or it's another 8 months or 8 weeks that we have to go through training. In the end we're all going to the same bowl





Did you feel like you were supported by the group when you were going through that hard time?

	Yes



Did you have any specific practices you did to help get through those times like meditation or praying or breathing?

	If anything it was just going out with my friends and eating or hanging out at the beach.





Did you have any difficult decisions you had to make going through BUD/S? Like turning a classmate for cheating or not doing what he was supposed to do?

Uhh… No not in our class.





Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?

	Uhh… Probably the biggest thing was because I couldn’t call my mom and tell her that I..





I love that answer

	That was one of the biggest things.





Let me ask it a different way, did you notice anything different about the people who wound up quitting? What was different between you and them, the people that are here and the people that aren’t?

	Uhh… It’s tough cause I still have some friends that have quit and still talk to





Oh I am not saying they are bad people, I am just trying to figure out 

	Oh no I know, right, but like I don’t know, I feel like with some of the guys that I was friends with before they quit were pretty much the same and had a bunch of the same like backstory and grew up kind of the same but then there is other people that are completely different and made it through. It’s hard to kind of pinpoint.





Okay, how do you think this whole experience changed you as a person?

	Uhh I definitely matured a lot, especially coming right after high school. It’s made me kind of grow up and open my eyes to the world a little bit. 





Yeah where are you from? I didn’t ask that

	I am from Texas



Where in Texas?

	Small town outside of San Antonio. About 45 minutes outside the city. 





Is there anything that I should’ve asked you that I didn’t that you think would help us figure out who makes a good BUD/S candidate? 

	I don’t know, it’s… 





If you were to go back to your high school and give a talk about what it’s like to be a SEAL, what would you be looking for if you were to interview people to see if they were suitable for BUD/S? 

	I think I’ve been told everything you really need to know about BUD/S, it’s not physically that demanding but it really is all just the mental game and it really just depends on how bad you want to be here, if you don’t want to be here… you’re not gonna stick around for the beatings and being cold, but if you do wanna be here it’s all worth it in the end.
