TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jake Rude

Date: 

Participant #: 53

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):



I: How many siblings do you have?

P: I have two brothers.

I: Two brothers. What’s their birth order?

P: Uhmmm, my older brother is two years older than me and my younger brother is six years younger than me.

I: Okay, so you’re in the middle?

P: Yes.

I: And how much did you say your younger was two years?

P: Six years.

I: Six years, oh that’s a big difference.

P: Yup.

I: uhm if you think about your life experiences what would you describe as kind of your crucible or life-shaping experiences beyond BUD/S?

P: uhm… I don’t know I guess when I went to college, I had a hard time with uh engineering school.

I: Yeah..

P: But I would study a lot and I’d pass, so I did alright, but… 

I: Anything prior to college that was kind of… 

P: Uhh, I ran cross country and I didn’t really like it, but I stuck with it… uhm… I don’t know, yeah not not too much I guess I mean my parents… Oh I guess like 2008 with the housing crisis and what not

I: Yeah.

P: My dad’s job got like pretty cutback like work was slow for awhile so, my parents tightened up a lot of things there… uhm… yeah that’s probably the biggest thing that definitely changed a lot about me like our life situation.

I: Yeah, where did you grow up?

P: uhh, phillipsburg, New Jersey. 

I: Okay

P: It’s like near uhh Pennsylvania.

I: Uhm, so do you think those experiences kind of your childhood experiences shaped kind of your experience here at BUD/S?

P: Yeah, I think to a degree, I don’t know I would always be really competitive in sports I was in with my older brother, but he beat me a lot since he was older and bigger.

I: Yeah

P: Uhm, but I always still played, I don’t know I didn’t really mind losing so much, I mean I didn’t like it, but at the same time like I got it.

I: Do you think kind of the act of losing, kind of set your mind, because a lot of times you can’t really win here, right? You just have to go through the event. Did that kind of help?

P: Yeah, I’m pretty good at losing, like I deal with it pretty well. I’m not super competitive which is I guess is kind of rare for this program, but I think sometimes its the really competitive guys, like when they can’t do something, it really breaks them down, where I’ve already kind of, I’m used to that stuff, so I didn’t really get phased too much.

I: Uhm, what about, could you tell me a little bit about your personality and how that kind of contributed to you going through BUD/S?

P: Uhm, I like to make friends… uhm I treat everyone usually like like noone’s better than me at least I don’t think so, uhm and noones like worse than me either… uhm, but yeah just kind of treat everyone as nice as possible whether they’re like a custodian or like a CEO I guess

I: Yeah

P: So everything in between is kind of all the same to me.

I: So, uhm, you kind of talked about it a little bit, but uhm I want to go in a little background about your childhood, so what about your background kind of lead you to want to become part of the SEAL community?

P: I would play like guns a lot when I was a kid and I just always thought it was cool… yeah uhm basically I just saw like a lot of war movies and stuff and I was always just into it. I don’t really know what sparked that, but… kind of made me… 

I: Were you part of a military family at all?

P: No.

I: Uhm, anybody else around you, kind of in your life that was military, that, sorry I’m just turning *cant hear*

P: Yeah my uncle was an army Ranger, but I didn’t really know that and my cousin was a marine, but he was just kind of a desk clerk, he didn’t really do anything combat, but I don’t know I looked up to them, I guess.

I: What about, I wanna talk about your childhood, like pre-teenage years. What was that like? What was your parent’s parenting style like?

P: Uhm, they would definitely like spank me if I was doing bad stuff and like I definitely didn’t cross them, like sometimes I would be rebellious, but I’d get put in my place real quickly uhm, I don’t know I guess it was just, I thought it was good though. It was definitely better than spoiling your kids or you know really just, like it was a good balance between like you know them being really good parents and giving us stuff we wanted, but also laying down the hammer when we were not being good or doing bad things I guess, like.

I: Uhm, did you move around at all in your childhood or were you all like…

P: Never. Yeah just the same home forever.

I: Okay, what about your teenage years, what were they like…?

P: Uhm… I ran cross country so I wasn’t like the biggest kid… uh… I don’t know I guess I got bullied a little bit, but I didn’t really care too much. I would walk around the hall smiling all the time, but I don’t like yeah I’d get called names and stuff. But I was, I never really like let it break me down I guess, but… 

I: yeah, do you think you got bullied like anymore than other kids, like particular race or… 

P: No I wasn’t like a super victim, yeah I just think I got bullied like everyone else does… 

I: yeah… 

P: But not nothing like crazy.

I: yeah, uhm you said you did cross country, did you do any other sports or did you do any other like team that wasn’t a sport, but a team type of thing?

P: Uhm, I did, I did swimming and baseball.

I: Okay.

P: But I really liked surfing, that was my favorite thing… Uhh and skateboarding.

I: What made you like those?

P: I just thought they were fun, I don’t know kind of dangerous I guess, but like they kind of give you a rush, so I like that.

I: Did you have a group you surfed with or skateboarded with?

P: Yeah I had a bunch of childhood friends and we all surfed and it was like the most fun thing I could have ever done, like way more fun than team sports. I don’t know, I didn’t really like team sports that much now that I think about it, it wasn’t as fun as surfing with my friends.

I: Yeah

P: But.

I: Okay *pause* uhm, what about in the last five years, uhm I know *cannot understand* What have you done with your time away?

P: uhm, I went to college and then I got a job as a mechanical engineer for two years.

I: okay

P: And then I always had this in the back of my mind, uhm, well actually I always wanted to do it and I kept putting it off and I think I should’ve done it a lot sooner. I feel like I almost wasted time, but it is what it is, I am here now, so I am pretty excited about it. Definitely don’t regret it at all, so I am really excited now.

I: Uhm, do you think you would’ve been as successful if you would’ve done it sooner?

P: I’m not too sure, part of me thinks I would’ve been fine just cause like no ones really, not really a matter of whether you’re a physical specimen or not, but I think, I don’t know, I don’t think it hurt having some more life experience.

I: Yeah, uhm, what about, uhh, do you consider yourself impulsive at all?

P: In what..?

I: Impulsive.

P: yeah, I don’t really like to make plans, I definitely like to just kind of do something now or not really, I don’t know.

I: What might be some impulsive behaviors that you say you have?

P: Uhh… like uhh… yesterday I was done watching a movie and I was gonna go back and go to sleep, but my friend called me and asked me to go to a bar and I was thinking about not going and then I was like ehh, I guess I’ll go. Ended up doing that, I don’t know if someone asks me to do something and I think it sounds fun at the moment, I’ll probably definitely do it.

I: Any tattoos… I know that seems like a strange question?

P: No, I don’t have any tattoos.

I: Uhm, speeding tickets…?

P: I got one speeding ticket like two years ago, but I don’t know I definitely drive quicker, but I definitely, I’m not like a maniac, but… 

I: Uhm, what motivates you  on a daily basis?

P: Uhm, not wasting my life I guess.

I: Yeah

P: Not getting complacent like I hated working my 9-5 job. I’ve had a ton of jobs that I hated, so having a job that I actually like is pretty motivating. Uhm… yeah just getting the most out of life because I am not a real religious person, so I think this is kind of like the one life we get soo….why waste it?

I: Do something good with it, uhh what do you think was the most challenging component of BUD/S, whether its holistically, or whether it was a specific day or event…? 

P:Uhm, I didn’t find BUD/S to be that tough.

I: Okay.

P: I just thought, you know, it’s gonna end not that far from now, so… what ever we were in like the pain was gonna go to another form of pain that I could handle and that would get really bad then I’d think it’s going to be some other form of pain and it never really got too badly I  don’t think.

I: Yeah, did you, did you think big picture or kind of little steps?

P: Little bites…? Uhhh, yeah I didn’t really think too far in the future.

I: Yeah… 

P: But I just thought about what if I quit, it would probably be like I quit and then five minutes later I’d see the class running somewhere else, doing something that like...uhm, like that I would be kicking myself for quitting because I definitely could have made it just five more minutes or whatever, uhm… 

I: Were there every anytimes that you wanted to quit? Like seriously actually considered it?

P: Uhh, never actually seriously, I always thought about like what if I were to quit right now, what would my life be like? But I never really was like “yeah, I need to quit right now,” yeah.

I: Uhm, anything specifically that motivated you to push through BUD/S?

P: Uhh, just this is the life I wanted to live I guess, I mean I kind of put it off for so long. I kind of experienced enough where I know mechanical engineering wasn’t really what I saw myself doing for the rest of my life.

I: yeah… 

P: And that was definitely enough to be like, “I definitely want to put everything into this.” But other than that, I don’t really, I’m not like super patriotic or super religious or anything like that. I just thought the job sounded awesome. I mean I do thinks its cool like killing bad guys and what not, people that are dirtbags, but uhh 

I: Uhm, do you feel there was support in the group, like was there group support in your class or was it more kind of individual?

P: I became friends with a lot of guys and I definitely like, we had some pretty funny moments, but uhh, yeah definitely definitely feed off each other as support, but uhh, I didn’t really have any real close, I wasn’t really too close where like if my friend quit like one of my friends, I had a few friends quit and it didn’t really phase me at all… like it was just kinda like bummer…

I: Keep going…

P: That’s part of the process, you know?

I: Uhm, were there any specific practices, I mean you said you weren’t really spiritual at all, but are there any specific practices that you used or physical, mental, or spiritual that kind of helped you get through this process?

P: Uhm… I did a lot of box breathing before events and what not, but not really like during, uhm, I would definitely tell myself positive things I’d say on the whole like negative thoughts definitely entered my mind, but not enough to like… just small ones I guess.

I: Yeah… uhm, were there any difficult decisions that you had to make at BUD/S and what went through your mind when you had to make a difficult decision?

P: Uhm, I think one of the harder parts was when I, I guess it wasn’t so hard...you…I don’t know, you kind of become animalistic and uhh when we were running boat one time, like I started screaming at other people that I knew were not doing their part.

I: Yeah.

P: Because they were just kind of like leeching off the guys that were really trying and like one kid fell out and it kinked my neck and I started cursing him out, I got all in his face and then he quit, uhm, but I didn’t really feel bad about that because not everyone deserves to be here so

I: Any kind of ethical or moral type of decisions you had to make?

P: I don’t really break the rules, just because I was scared of getting dropped, so nothing like that, I never really cheated on anything or… not in anyway like that.

I: okay, uhm, why do you think you were successful?

P: Uhm…. I think it had a lot to do with growing up with like my brother and his friends.

I: Yeah… 

P: Uhm, I don't know, we’d, we’d get in fights and what not, but uhh, I don’t know, sometimes I’d win, so that was kind of funny at least. Uhh, I don’t know, I think it, I don’t know just getting bullied, but like I don’t know, it was harmless bullying, it’s kind of weird to say, but I think that helped a lot.

I: Kind of shaped you a little bit?

P: Yeah, yeah it was good.

I: Uhm, did you notice anything different about the people that made it versus the people that didn’t make it?

P: Uhm, physically or mentally?

I: Anything.

P: Uhm, I think sometimes the guys that were really physically fit like just got uhh, whats the word, I don’t know got *short pause* got shaken up by the fact they weren’t performing or something like that.

I: Yeah…

P: Uhm, where a lot of guys that weren’t always super fit kind of just were used to that sort of thing, uhm, no matter how much they were getting yelled at to perform or what not. They kind of just gutted it out, but, I don’t know, You could definitely just tell like some guys like my one friend who was just staring blankly in a mirror one time and I was like, “hey man, you alright?” and he like didn’t even answer me

I: Yeah… 

P: And I was just like, like he just had like you know you could tell outwardly after like a logs session or what not, he would be like, “man that really sucked” and I would be like laughing kind of and he was just like, he wouldn’t respond or he just would think about how much that sucked. I was like that sucked but thank God we’re doing something else now, like you know it’s behind us now

I: Moved on to the next thing.

P: yeah, so, I think that’s a big thing.

I: Okay well the good thing is this is now done, you’re done with my easy questions compared to *inaudible* 

P: Cool.

I: Thank you, Congratulations.

P: Thank you very much

I: Take care.

P: Nice to meet you 

I: Great to meet you
