sTRANSCRIBER NAME: Robert Briggs

Date: 16AUG2020

Participant #: 49

Length of the Interview: 13:45

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Scott Lynch

Participant (Code in black):



Okay, so this is participant, uh, 49. So I have a series of questions I am going to ask you, uh answer them, you know as well as you can. Uh we got 15 minutes so hopefully we can get through all of them, but if we can’t I’ll uh cut it off. 

Yeah

Uhm, when did you start BUD/S?

I started in June. 

Of 2019?

Yes, 

Is this your first BUD/S?

Yes. 





Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): How many siblings do you have?

I have none.

None? And what was your parental situation growing up?

Just, uhm, two parents, they are married.

Mom and dad married?

What was your relationshi..or what is your relationship with your parents?

It’s very good. I talk to them every week. 



SIO: what, what if any life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/S?

Uhm, prior to BUD/S? Uhm, I think a big life changing event for me was when one of my good friends in high school died in a car accident. That definitely made me a more religious person. 







SIO: How did that experience factor into your experience at BUD/S?

Uhm, I don’t know, I just started, uh like going to church more and more like faith, you know I guess I took that into BUD/S and like  (unintelligible). 







SIO: How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

I think it was good because I would take everything like not too seriously like joking around a lot. 

So you don’t take things too seriously?

Yeah, like, have fun with it. 





SIO: Describe your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community.  And in particular, do you have any SEALs as family or friends or military family, friends?

Yeah, I grew up in Virginia Beach, and it was like 2 miles from Dam Neck where I live so, all my like childhood friend’s dads were in the teams. And a ton of my friends already went through too. There’s like 6 guys from my neighborhood that I went to High School with who went straight through. 

So you have several friends who are already SEALs?

Yeah, we maybe all wanted to do it since like 2nd grade. 

Do what?

Since like second grade I wanted to do this. 







SIO: Tell me a little bit about your childhood.  For example, how were you disciplined as a child?  How would you describe your parents parenting style? (spanking, timeouts, withholding toys, etc.).

Uh, my parents were pretty strict on me. Uhm, I’d say my what my dad stressed a lot was being tough all the time. Like never complain, never quit anything. He definitely told me that since I can remember. 

Did they, were you spanked? Grounded? 

No 

No? What things...how were your parents strict?

Uhm, I mean, they would get on me about like grades and stuff. But, uh, they never really like grounded me or anything like that. 







SIO: did you move around as a child?  

No. 

During your teenage years? No moving?

Nope, only in college. Cause I went to North Carolina State so I was in Raliegh. 

How’d you choose NC State?

Uhm, it’s only like 3 hours away and uh, I wanted to do ROTC there. And uh, ended up not so I went there, did ROTC for like the first semester and I decided I wanted to go enlisted, but I still loved the school so I decided to stay there. 

I teach at Duke so...

Uhm, so tell me about your teenage years. Did you participate in a team sport? 

Yeah I did, uh wrestled, played football, soccer. 

Those were the three?

Yep, those were the three. 







SIO: What have you done in the last 5 years of your life prior to starting at BUD/S? 

Uhm, what do you mean like uh like I was in college. 

College?

Yeah. 

So as soon as you got out of college you enlisted?

Yes, I went right out of my college house. 

What was your degree in? 

Criminology

That’s the same sort of track I took. 





 Would you consider yourself impulsive?  

Uh, I don’t, I don’t think so. 

Do you have any tattoos?

No



SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? Or your hardest, hardest day or hardest event?

Hardest day? Okay, so um it was my first attempt at OC 8.

The what? 

OC 8, the pool comp, and I blacked out underwater, and I got pulled out on a stretcher and stuff then they were like ‘alright, your second attempt is tomorrow.’ so I just go in the next day like after that kind of like traumatic experience, so it was tough like calming my nerves after that. 

So you, how...what caused you to black out?

Didn’t have any air. I had a knot and couldn’t get it undone and um I like flipped it off my back and started working on it just was like taking to long and started convulsing and took in water and I was out and next time I woke up I was just on a little stretcher on the side of the pool and they were slapping my face. 



SIO: So, What motivated to push through after that?

It was honestly just cause I wanted to be with the boys. I didn’t want to get pulled like all my friends were in 38 so I was just like I got to pass this 

Did you feel support from the group?

Yeah, yeah no everybody wanted to pass so. 







SIO: What um, in general, What practices (physical, mental, spiritual) did you utilize to push through or get through the challenges?

Challenges? Uh, I just would get in my head and say that God’s got me no matter what, then I just pushed the worry away and I don’t really think much about it. s





SIO: When you made a difficult decision during training, what went through your mind, uh,  as you made that decision? What decision did you really struggle with? Uhm the example is uh, they have here is running classmates out, uh or turning in a cheating classmate. 

Uhm, I can’t think of a specific time, but I know when I’ve had to make tough decisions, I usually just go with my gut, because I trust my gut. 







SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing this?

I think it’s because I really didn’t have, I didn’t really have the option of quitting or failing because all my friends and family have already made it so it was like I didn’t want to be that guy who would be a disgrace to all of them. I was perfectly fine with dying out there if I had to. 





SIO: Did you notice anything different about those that did not make it? 

I think the guys who did not make it would get worried about all the little things and not think of like big picture. There’s a lot of guys who would be like super before a swimmer inspection or something which is so small, you just do like push ups or something if you fail and like there’s no time...there’s no need to stress over that. 

Anything else?

Uhm, I don’t know, I wouldn’t even say it doesn’t really matter what shape you’re in to get to this point and obviously i’m in the shape to make it through I would say just worrying too much. And not having fun with it. 













SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience, going through the program,  change you as a person?



Uhm, I think it definitely made me a better person just because I learned how to deal with failure all the time. 

To deal with what?

Deal with failure. Taking it, learning it, and moving on. I think that’s a great skill people can have. It also made me realize like you’re not going to be good at everything the first time you try it. But you always have to at least try. 

Is there anything else that I should have asked you, but didn’t?

Probably not, that was good. 

Great. 

Alright, thank you.
