TRANSCRIBER NAME: Jake Rude

Date: 1/14/2020

Participant #: 40

Interviewer (Code in Blue):

Participant (Code in black):



Interview Guide

Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): How many siblings do you have?

Uhhh I have two actual siblings, uh a half brother, and then five step siblings.

Interviewer: Wow *small laugh*

Participant: Family keeps growing.



SIO: uhm, so tell me where you fall in there?

Participant: uhhh so between me and my actual siblings, I am the middle child.

*pause*

Interviewer: And then with your acc...your half brother and your other… direct sibling *laugh* whatever the terminology is

Participant: yeahyeah

Interviewer: What’s the genders and… 

Participant: Uh, older sister, younger brother and then my little half-brother he’s little guy

Interviewer: aw… so sister you and then brother

Participant: yeah then actual brother then half brother

Interviewer: I won’t ask about the sexes

Participant: *giggle* thank you

Interviewer: *laughing* I’ll keep it easy you dont have to think too much about all that. Uhm, so couple questions about kind of your life experiences. Wha-what do you uhm kinda are your life experiences that you would decide as crucible or life-shaping experiences that have shaped you.

Participant: uhm *short pause* uhhh I could probably go back to like… I don’t know whenever I was a little kid I always would, like, I was with my grandparents a lot because my actual parents got divorced so like i grew up in basically like my grandma and grandpap were very key players in like raising me so they kinda taught me of old traditional values and like the whole like working hard everyday was like, you go to work and so

Interviewer: yeah

Participant: you’re like a little kid so that kind of gave me everything of how I am

Interviewer: yeah, so uhm and can I ask what age did your parents get divorced

Participant: uhh, i think I was 11

Interviewer: Okay, uhm, I’m just so talking so my recorder keeps finish, technical difficulties *giggle*. So how do you think those fac-, like, factored into your experiences at BUD/S.

Participant: uhm I guess that’s where I learned hard work

Interviewer: yeah… 

Participant: So it’s kind of like, and like just getting into this routine where it’s you like may not want to do that, but you do it anyway

Interviewer: yeah..

Participant: And like my grandfather specifically he was in the military way back and he like went into those same kind of values, like just hard work or all that stuff so… he put that in me and my brother 

Interviewer: yeah… 

Participant: And that’s how we were because of that so 

Interviewer: Now, uhm, what about your, like talk to me about a bit about your personality and then kind of how your personality may have

Participant: *laughs* 

Interviewer: continued you through BUD/S

Participant: Probably not what you would expect. Super easy going… 

Interviewer: yeah… 

Participant: Not really like super structured or anything like that. Just kind of go with the flow and it works a lot better… 

Interviewer:  yeah… 

Participant: … personally I find that, so just simple easy going guy *giggle*

Interviewer: yeah… now was coming into this SEAL community something you always wanted or just some kind of… ?

Participant: Since I was probably 18 or 19 years old, I always wanted to do the military, but just uhh didnt uh like this was really out there… 

Interviewer: yeah… 

Participant: cause like originally I wanted to do the Marine Corps and it was just like... this is harder than that so I went for this

Interviewer: yeah… go for the hardest, right?

Participant: Yeah *giggle* 

Interviewer: *laughs slightly as well* uhm now I kinda want to talk a little bit about your background and is there anything you know I asked about life changing experiences, but anything you would say specifically to I want to be…

Participant: Uhhhhhh not really

Interview: yeah…

Participant: I can honestly say no

I: thats okay *giggles* uhm what about your childhood I asked about a little bit, you already told me a little bit, but what was, I guess your grandparents they they were kind of around you a lot or your parents whichever makes sense?

P: wait I am sorry can you

I: Parenting style 

P: uhhhh so my grandparents were very traditional

I: yeah…

P: Like if you messed up, it was like you knew that you messsed up kind of like, but you’d learn from that. My parents were kind of like, they’d be there

I: yeah…

P: But my mom was kind of easy-going, where as like uhh like, I dont know, let you do which you want in a sense, but my dad was like very very hardcore and was like you were afraid to mess up on that side so it was like kind of like I had all three levels like parenting I guess like very hardcore and the easiest of going, so I think that kind of mixed uhhh set me up a little bit better sooo

I: Now with that max uhm what was kind of the discipline style? Were you spanked? Were you put in time outs? Were you…

P: Uhh definitely got the belt and stuff like that…

I: yeah… 

P: and then time outs and stuff like that… 

I: yeah so I know this seemed like a random question, but

P: yeah *giggles* no it was just like we’ve talked about all this before just us guys… Did you ever get the belt? Yeah, we got the belt *giggle*

I: Thats why we’re asking… we’re like maybe theres a some sort of trend there.

P: very true-...yeah 

I: Kind of odd, but *giggles*, what about your teenage years? Did you move around a lot? Were you kind of stationary your whole life?

P: I mean I was…. Like it was, I would spend half my time at my mom’s house, half my time at my dad’s house and… yeah

I: Were they fairly close… you know in the same town? 

P: yeah within ten minutes from each other…

I: Now what about, did you participate in sports?

P: Football

I: okay, any other kind of team activities whether they were sports or not?

P: Intramural, but nothing like crazy.

I: okay...uhm… anything else about your teenage years that you would think were kind of shaped you...influenced you…?

P: uhm… I would say throughout the teenage years, I was kind of like. I would almost say rebellious, but defninitely like more trouble causing then I kind of like matured out of that that, but I realized that having that whole parent relationship like with like mom and dad being on opposite sides of the town...oh like I could just so stay at the other family’s house if I’m getting yelled at soo we would get in trouble and it would be like oh just go to the other house. So it kind of like, I dont know, it wasn’t good in that sense, but then when I went into college, it like, it was like okay time to be an adult because everything went away and it was like just became better I guess.

I: yeah okay you didn’t have to worry. Uhm what about the last 5 years, so 5 years kind of leading up to BUD/S, what were they like?

P: College, like not crazy partying in colleges, it was very like went to college, I think Freshman year it was like an eye opener because I wasnt doing very well and I was more focused on like, I don’t know, going out and doing stuff like that where kind of set myself up for disaster going down that path and I was like I gotta change so then I focused on the grades, focused on just working out, conditiong, cause I knew that this was going to be like my goal afterwards, so did that and then after college just went and worked in construction for a little while and we were like th….yeah I guess we kind of like also shifted focus and made sure that we kept working hard rather than going out partying with friends or anything like that, soo I didn’t hang out with friends as much, it was just more of just focus on this.

I: yeah because this was your goal…

P: yes

I: And when did this become your goal?

P: 18-19

I: Now would you consider yourself impulsive?

P: Uhh yes *giggle*

I: So could you tell me a story and like kinda like impulsive behaviors that…

P: well uhm yeah, I’m *giggle* i’ll say I have a bad habit just spending where if I want that, I am going to go out and get it and I am going to work to get it, but it’s just like...yeah...especially like if I want something done, I kind of want it done now which is yes… I guess that’s impulsive.

I: yeah… now what about, do you have any tattoos?

P: I have 4 tattoos.

I: 4 tattoos, yeah, I don’t know what that means yet

P: *Laughs* 

I: When I find out, I’ll get back to you

P: *laughs*

I: Uhm now any other kind of impulsive sorts of speeding tickets or….

P: No speeding tickets….uhhh….. I guess you could say impulsive behaviors back in the day, but not anymore. Just kind of like toned out, mellowed down and kinda like not anymore.

I: And would those impulsive behaviors back in the day, was in that in high school, college…

P: High school

I: okay, uhm what motivates you on a daily basis?

P: I’m sorry what was that?

I: Motivates you on a daily basis?

P: uhhh my family. Just anything like thats going on, I just think I am doing this for my family and uhm *coughs* sorry excuse me and uhh it just kinda brings me back and keeps me going and just it could be the worst of times, I’m just I’m doing this for my family and that kinda just resets everything and it gives me a new perspective on it, I’m like well this isn’t that bad.

I: Yeah now family, you say family are you talking about your mom or do you have…

P: Just, everybody in my family like everybody related

I: yeah…anybody...

P: Yeah

I: uhm… what about BUD/S now, more specifically, what do you think was the most challenging component? Could be... overall, could be a day or specific event…?

P: uhm… I know i had… there was one bad day where I had… I was like on the chopping block cause of it...like I just… it was back in first phase and then we were running boat and we picked up to the point where it was just like no matter what I did, I could not keep up and I kept telling myself just keep going, just keep going you’ll get it… I just couldnt keep up and… that was definitely like… one day that was more challenging than anything I’d ever seen…

I: yeah…

P: yeah…  after that I turned it around, but I don’t really know how it just kind of like became easier after that…

I: yeah…

P: soo…

I: And you said that was first phase?

P: yeah… first phase 

I: Was that before or after hell week?

P: Before hell week.

I: uhm… what kind of motivated you overall to push through?

P: Again coming back to my family, that’s 100% any kind of motivation was my family… and not necessarily like, just, I don’t know, just my whole idea behind it was, it goes back generational like my grandparents… were like all my grandparents generations… they all went in the military just like my grandfather’s brothers and everybody and then like my like dad’s generation, they didn’t go in the military like nobody did, so I kind of felt like somebody in my family had to stick to that because there is other families out here, where there sons and daughters are going off...and like protecting them whether or not you realize it or not somebody’s out there protecting you, so it was like that should be me or at least somebody in my family or somebody has to do it for my family, soo that’s my idea behind it *giggles*

I: okay what about as a group, do you think...uhm...through this process like the group, everybody here supporting each other, like did you feel supported as a group?

P: yes and no, there is definitely times where its like if a guy like messes up its kinda like and keeps messing up its kinda like get him out of there, but for the most part I would say its a group thing, but with some minor aspects to it… *giggles*

I: There’s, there’s a cut off

P: Yeah, there’s a cut off point

I: Is that cut off point really when people aren’t performing?

P: Yes, yeah, simple, cut and dry

I: What about were there any specific practices you did whether physical, mental, or spiritual that you did as you progressed through BUD/S?

P: uhhh, God was definitely a big part of it.... Uhhhh anytime there was something that I knew was gonna be hard or challenging, I would just pray and also pray for my buddies going through it. And I think first time, every time is a thing and I know second time or third I’m just like please help me. And please help my buddies who are going through the same thing, so yeah it was spiritual in that sense.

I: yeah, what do you think, if there was a difficult decision you had to make here at BUD/S, can you talk to me about that decision a little bit and what went through your mind as you made that decision?

P: I don’t think there really was a difficult decision, it was kinda like, its very simple and it’s just once you realize that it’s simple, everything else difficult about it goes out the window.

I: Yeah, so so, what makes it simple?

P: Uhm, I’ve had this discussion before and that’s like an hour long discussion…

I: Yeah, we don’t need to get into it.

P: Yeah *laughs*

I: But is there like, is it just not overthinking or? 

P: Yeah, I would definitely say it’s just not overthinking anything. Every, a lot of the guys problems is they overthink it, but it like, it gets them to the point where it’s just like they can’t handle it and they’ll talk about it at night or something like that and you’re just like “calm down, take a breath” and it comes down to just simply breathe and like don’t overthink it.

I: So why do you think you were successful?

P: Why??

I: Yeah, at BUD/S.

P: Uhm, because I was calm and just breathed.

I: Yeah

P: Like going back to like, I guess I gotta credit Master Chief Barachi with this...uhhh… he would teach us stuff like hey, just get mad and step back from it all

I: yeah

P: Just one second even 

I: *mic scuffled* It’s loud (unsure)

P: Just take one second step back and then you’ll realize that it’s not that bad and it’s not that hard and it’s not that complicated and then you’re just like wow okay I can do this.

I: Uhm, do you notice anything different between the people that made it through BUD/S and the people that didn’t?

P: I mean, before, from first phase, yes and then from there on, no. Every guy was kinda the same they just had their hiccups.

I: What was the different in first phase for those that didn’t make it?

P: Probably just mindset.

I: Yeah…

P: Like you’d see guys like just overthinking everything or just even how they acted or anything like that. You could tell like they just didn’t wanna be here, so.

I: Okay, I’m done with you *giggles*

P: *giggles*

I: Thank  you, I appreciate it.

P: Thank you.

I: You’ve done everything?

P: Yes I’ve done everything, thank you.

I: Thank you, congratulations.

P: Thank you.



PartSIO: What is the gender of each sibling? (align with birth order)







SIO: If you think of your life experiences, what might you describe as your crucible or life shaping experiences?







SIO: How did those experiences factor into your experience at BUD/S?









SIO: How do you think your personality contributed to your progression through BUD/S?

















SIO: Describe your background that led you to pursue becoming part of the SEAL community.  







SIO: Tell me a little bit about your childhood.  For example, how were you disciplined as a child?  How would you describe your parents parenting style? (spanking, timeouts, withholding toys, etc.).









SIO: Tell me about your teenage years?  For example, did you move around?  Did you participate in a team sport or an activity with a tight knit community? (ask what specifically that sport or activity was)









SIO: What have you done in the last 5 years of your life (prior to BUD/S training)?  Would you consider yourself impulsive?  For example, do you have any tattoos?  















SIO: What motivates you on a daily basis?















SIO: What was the most challenging component of BUD/S? (Holistic question) (Think about your hardest day or event at BUD/S)







SIO: What motivated to push through?  Did you feel like you were supported by the group?







SIO: What practices (physical, mental, spiritual) did you utilize to push through the challenges?







SIO: When you made a difficult decision during training at BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision?







SIO: Can you provide an example?









SIO: Why do you think you were successful in completing BUD/S?







SIO: Did you notice anything different about those that did not make it?  If so, can you describe those differences?













SIO: BONUS QUESTION - How did this experience change you as a person?











		1
