TRANSCRIBER NAME: Andrew Malick

Date: 12AUG2020

Participant #: 344 (344_2020.02.10_10.37_012.mp3)

Length of the Interview: 16:08

Interviewer (Code in Blue): Alex Dietrich

Participant (Code in black): 



Interview Guide



So do I have your permission to record? 

Yes.

OK. And if you would state your participant I.D. number. 

344

OK. And when did you start your BUD/s class?

I was with three five, 335. Virtually. I got to Coronado in December of 2018. 

And... Is this your first BUD/S experience? 

Yes.





Standard Interviewer Question (SIO): So I'd like to ask you about your family. Are you an only child? And-.



I'm an only child.

Ok, me too. So what are your parents? Married, separated…?

They separated when I was like four. 

OK. And are they divorced? 

Yeah, they're divorced. 

And what's your relationship like with either of them? 

I'm very close with both of them. They have like a good- even after the divorce- they stayed like friends, so it wasn't like a nasty divorce. 

OK. So family dynamics. How often would you say you contact them?

Uh, like now? I still talk to 'em multiple times a week. Not quite everyday, but probably. 







SIO: SO Have there been any life changing events happened in your life prior to BUD/s?

Ummm, not really. 

So you went through highschool, did you go to college? 

I did. Yeah, I went to college for two years. I guess that's kind of it was kind of this. I just was in college and I was wanting to come to this and kind of told them I was leaving college so I had to finish, which I kind of like, knew what I wanted to do. And I was pretty, you know, like I was pretty set on it. So they weren't they were happy with my decision. Obviously, my dad definitely took it well. My mom at first was like, "you're not gonna finish college?", but she was good with it. And then I just left college and came here.

OK. So that sounds like college might have been a positive for you? 

Yeah, I enjoyed college. It was just kind of like I was kind of looking to see what I wanted to do. And nothing really stuck out to me besides this. And I'd like- so something I like thought about growing up, but it was never like, I'm going to go do that until I got to college and kind of started switching majors a few times. And I was like, "you know what, honestly, I want to do this." I don't want to be in college. 

So you had to learn to be more independent?

Yeah.

Take initiative.

 

SIO: How do you think your personality affected your progression through BUD/S?

 Pretty easy going guy. I think that helps a lot of the hard times. You just kind of got to find the humor in it and get through it. It's not like if you dwell on everything, like, I feel like it would build on you and be pretty heavy. But I'm just kind of roll with the punches through it. 





SIO: OK. You mentioned that you have sort of always been interested in the SEAL community. What got you interested in the SEALs and what led you done this path? Do you have any family or friends that were? 

I don't really know. I kind of I think I learned about them on a young age. I don't really know exactly how. And then-. 

Did you have anybody in your family, that was in the military? 

Uhhh uh. My dad was a sheriff's officer for like 28 years, and I probably had a lot to do with it because he, like I saw how much he helped other people. I knew that was part of something I wanted to do. I would like to help people and might do something greater than just ourselves. 

Some idea of service. And you can't remember when you were exposed or got the idea of SEALs but it really became urgent two years into college. What was that sense of urgency? 

I don't even, I think, it was along the time, when like all the books and movies and everything were coming out. And I think I watched Lone Survivor one day or something and I decided to read the book. And that led me into reading like quite a few different books, kind of like researching it more. And I was not really a big reader. And when I started reading more and like, learnin' more, I was like, "Wow. I'm actually interested in this." So that's what kind of sparked it. As I'll learned more, I just got more like into it. And I was like, "I want to do this."





SIO: So tell me about your childhood, especially interested in your parents parenting styles. So like were you spanked as a kid? 

Yes.

Free range parenting, or...

Uh, it was kinda, I was spanked as a kid, but my mom and my dad really had different styles. My mom was like definitely very strict growing up. And Dad was more like, like good buddy. Like mentor. Like me. We hunted all the time together, played baseball. He coached a lot.... But he never, he was never like on my case but as much as a mom. 



And then as you got older, was there like, loss of privileges? Did they take away your video games, your phone, or your car? Or was it like, "You disappointed us"? 



Yes. It was more like the disappointment speech. I never, I don't really think I had things taken away. 



SIO: And then did you move throughout your childhood or your teenage years? 

Well, like being in the same area. We moved, of course, like our parents divorced and then they both remarried. And later on, they moved and moved away from like where my original house. But we still- were in the same community. I never moved away.

So you were in the same school?

Yeah. 



SIO: OK. So tell me about your teenage years. Did you do any sports, or do an activity with a close-knit community?

We- I play baseball growing up, from like, I started when I was like four. And then when I was eight, we had to travel team that I played with until like pretty much high school, played high school baseball. And that I definitely got that "team"- I was always used to being on a team and had a close knit group of guys that were always there that definitely like, was part of the reason I want to come here just like that team and knowing you can count on the dudes. 

Yeah.

SIO: So in the five years prior to BUD/S, you had the two years and then that was right out of highschool, and was there once and was there any time you were working, or. doing a gap year, or mission work? 

Yeah. So like I worked in the summer, but then after college, after I left college, I spent at a year just working and like working out gettin ready to do it here. 

And how long was that? 

Like right at a year. 

One year at home preparing to start training. And that was mostly physical training? Or did you have any other, sort of mental training? 

Nah,  It was mainly just physical training. 



SIO: Ok, Would you consider yourself impulsive? For example, do you have any tattoos you got on a whim? 

I don't. [chuckles]. 

[Laughs] OK. So any. tickets, big purchases? 

Not really. 

You didn't see a car and buy it on the spot?

Nah. 

So you're more analytical in your decision making. You plan your research?

Yeah. 



SIO: What was the most challenging time of BUD/S? This could be like an event, or evolution, or it could be like "logs", or "water".

Probably the water. Probably water just because, like, that's one thing- I like definitely swam and stuff growing up. But I didn't swim competitively. I was never like... Like I just swam for fun... and not necessarily swimming portion, but especially like underwater stuff. It's just like- I didn't have much experience with. So it was like kind of weird at first. 

So that- was it scary? Was it intimidating? Why was it so hard?  

I guess just my nerves. Not really scary, but like, I'm just nervous. I don't know. 







SIO: OK. And then when you were about to do something in the water and you had that anxiety or nervousness about it, what got you? How did you get through that challenge? 

Really just stand in the moment and just kind of attacking it and, just kinda- once it, once I start anything that I'm really like. "Stressful situation." I just have a way of kind of like going into like a focused mode where I was just like me doing what I need to do. And it's not- I don't like outsiders stressors kind of get in. 

Did you have- That sounds very internal. 

Yeah.

Did you feel supported by the group? 

Absolutely. Absolutely. Like everything you do here is like everybody's gone through it with me. You guys like you're never like alone do anything here.



SIO: Did you do any practices like physical, mental, spiritual that you used to push through those challenges? So, some guys will do a prayer, meditation, or a mantra. Some athletes will, before a game, do a physical form if you have any routine. 



Not really, no. [Chuckles]. So I just went in to everything. 

SIO: OK. When you made a difficult decision during training to BUD/S, what went through your mind as you made that decision? And give me an example of a decision that you really struggled with? So, for example, like running out your classmate, to go to medical, with risk of getting hurt. 

Probably. So I guess talking about like running somebody out, just kinda, it's kind of like I tried to give- If we were going to run somebody out, we tried to like, from my experience and we ran anybody out of was more like-  It wasn't as, uhh.... A bunch of guys like yell at people and stuff like that. We never we never really, like, told the guy to get out or just kind of try to be nice to him, like him in like do what you can do. Next thing you know, he's gone. And it's like it was hard, obviously, cause you're like basically running  the guy out, like, grown in his dream. But in the end, this program is not for everybody. And maybe down the road he gets some better shape and comes back and makes it. But if this program was like just uh... like get guys who weren't ready or something like that, then it wouldn't be what it is. I don't know. I guess that's, I kind of didn't really answer your question. 

So what I'm hearing you say is that there are standards? And that it's not really that you're making a judgment and but that you're just like, "these are the standards, and they're there for a reason."

Yeah. And everyone's expected uphold them. So if I was not meeting the standard to help him, it's kind of counterintuitive, to the whole program. 

SIO: Why do you think that you were successful? 

I think just like not letting it get to you, just taking it one step at a time, like I got rolled that was like probably one of the bigger setbacks I've had at BUD/S, but was like the first time I got rolled. No one like you have to go all the way back through it. This, like, you just can't, you can't get overwhelmed by the whole process, you just got to live in a moment, you kinda get done what you got to get done at the time. 

So did you notice anything about whats different about those who didn't make it, and those who dropped? 

Umm... It felt like they got in their own head mostly. Kind of like I was saying, like I got ahead of theirself thinking like, wow, this sucks. We got this and I still got to do this. They're not- they weren't focused on like living at the moment. Just getting through the evolution at hand. 

 

SIO: Has this experience changed you as a person? 

Absolutely. I've definitely grown- facing adversity is like the way- I feel like once you make through this, you don't. Nothing really seems quite as big of an issue to you as it would be like before I went through this. So, like, if you gave me a really big problem, I'd be like, I don't I don't know what to do. But like I this program really teaches you to use your resources, do everything you can and kinda, like, attack any issue you have to attack. 

Problem solving?

Yeah. 

OK. Is there any question that we haven't covered that you think would be useful for this idea of investigating who is successful and why?

Ummm not really. 

OK. I'm going to hit stop.
