TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Franchuk

Date: 1/30/2022

Participant #: 613

Interviewer (Code in blue): Dr. Deirdre Dixon

Participant (Code in black): #613

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. So what was your number?

613: 613

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. And do you mind if I record this?

613: Absolutely not. That's fine.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. Thank you. So what, um, what clo-... BUD/S class were you in?

613: 352.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: 352. And what phase did you leave?

613: Uh, prep.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: And then how many weeks ago did you leave, like, how long you been here?

613: Uh, probably got draft week three of prep, and there were seven weeks. So about six weeks ago.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. Thank you. And now we wanna start off with something easy. Just tell me a little bit about your childhood. Did you move a lot? Do you have siblings? You know, are your parents still together? Just general stuff like that.

613: Yeah. Uh, parents are still together. Uh, they've been together for 20 s-, uh, 26 years now.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Uh-huh (affirmative).

613: Um, two siblings. I'm the oldest. Uh, a younger sister four years younger than me, and then eight years younger than me, my brother. Um, did not move a lot. Um, I mean relative to a certain area, uh, we pretty much stayed in within like a 15-mile radius my whole childhood. Um, but we did... had lived in like, five or six different houses, I guess. Um, but it was all, I mean, we stayed within the same school district.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Right.

613: Um, there was never any of the, like, reacquainting with new-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: [crosstalk 00:01:21]

613: ... children or anything like that. Um, but yeah. I'm Fort Wayne born and raised. Um, and then stayed there until I moved out here at the age of 25, or joined the Navy, I guess, at 25, so.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. Do you mind if we take the masks off-

613: Absolutely not.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... I'm boosted-

613: Perfect. That's fine with me.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... vaccinated, all that stuff. Okay. I just... I find it easier to talk. Um, so if you had to s-... describe your personality in three traits, what do you think you would... what words would you use?

613: Um, so to be like a little bit more candid, I know the mic's on, but I'm actually, like, the reason I was asking you so many questions was because I'm very interested in this, myself. Um, and like, I like a lot of that different thing. Um, so, I guess, I've kinda like... I'm like, kinda interested in getting to know myself, uh, in relation to other people and stuff like that. That's like one of my biggest, um, I don't know, I guess, interests in life.

613: Um, I don't know familiar you are with the Carl Jung's, like, personality types, um-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Very, very familiar.

613: Yeah, I figured with, like, your line of work. So with that I've come to the conclusion that I'm an INFP, and I think that's like very, um, I think that can be very indicative of, uh, certain things, uh, within a p- person's life. And, um, so I take a lot from that. I try not, like, try and obviously take that with a grain of salt, but I do think that there's a lot truth that comes from something like that. And there's a lot of truth that can be derived from, like, that type of getting to know that... those four attributes about a person.

613: Um, so with that, like, I'm pretty media- mediative, I guess. Um, I kind of have a hard time, um... I guess, I see, like, a lot of perspectives and I s-, I kind of always have questioned, like, how certain people are so dead-set on things, because I see so many different possibilities and have a hard time sticking with one. Um, or just like being dead-set on one perspective. Um, so that's kind of, I guess, those are two good, uh, traits. And then I'd say, like, pretty open to experience in terms of like that. Um, and I-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. So if I had... If you wanted to explain this to somebody, what would those letters mean?

613: So in, like, pretty simple terms, uh, the I versus the E, um, is how you get your energy. Um, and so like spending time on my own is where I derive, like, get my energy from. The N, uh, versus S would like how you perceive the world. Um, the N is like intuition versus, um, like the subject experience of, like, sensory details and stuff. Whereas the N sees, like, patterns and... I don't really know exactly what it means, but-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Intuitive.

613: Yeah. I, I don't know how that, like, translates to life and, like, how I take in information, but I do know that's how information gets taken in. Um, and then the next letter is how you make decisions on life, uh, the effort is the, like, T. Like, F is like feeling-based, being, like, very in tune with your gut as opposed to, like, thinking and being logical about things. And then the P versus the J, uh, perceptive is, like, openness to experience, I guess. And there's a like-, likes to see... have things play out by themselves. Whereas, like, J is like more, like, dead-set on, I don't know.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: You got it perfect. I would say the only thing is N. You said you weren't sure. That's big picture of people-

613: Okay.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... versus the a-, the, um, um, the S is more detailed-oriented.

613: Okay.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: So you're a big picture person. Wow.

613: Okay.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: You know a lot about this. Okay.

613: (Laughs)

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Awesome, great. Well, thank you. Um, so tell me about your last five years prior to BUD/S, like, you know, you seem like you're a little older, maybe more mature than others. W- what, what would you do from, like, 20 to 25?

613: Okay. Yeah. So right after high school I graduated, or I graduated high school and then went straight to college, um, four years.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: So where?

613: Purdue.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Purdue? Okay.

613: So four years there. Actually graduated with organizational leadership, so that's-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Oh, okay.

613: ... also right up your alley.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Awesome.

613: So, yeah, I, I did that in four years. Um, one of the questions on the, uh, survey we just took was about, like, setting goals and I, sometimes I kind of, uh, have a hard time, like, picking what goals to set. But I did decide that I wanted to graduate debt-free and I was able to, to do that. So that was, like, a pretty big-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: That's huge.

613: ... was one of the major accomplishments I've had, yeah. Um, so I've graduated four years there. And then after that, um, didn't really... I didn't even really know what I wanted to do at that point. Looking back, I mean, obviously, or even, uh, hindsight's 20/20. But I wish I would've gone down more of, like, this kind of really, like, psychology.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: Um, but, uh, I graduated and didn't really know what to do after that. Um, just wanted to try a bunch of different things and see what stuck. Um, so I tried, like, coaching football. Uh, I did a little bit with my own, like, landscaping thing. Um, I bartended, I mean, I served through college which is how I, like, was able to pay that off. But-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: ... um, I never bartended so I wanted to try that, so I did that for a year after I graduated. Um, kind of just bounced around doing a bunch of different stuff. I tried selling cars to get into, like, the, I don't know, just see if that was for me and that definitely wasn't.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: Um, but, yeah. So I, I'd say the thing that stuck the most with me and was, like, the most I felt, I guess, in tune with who I am was coaching football. Like, that was very up my alley. I enjoyed that greatly. Um, but then I just got to the point where I was like, you know, I always wanted to leave Fort Wayne, or I've always wanted to leave Indiana, and, uh, I thought why not pursue, like, the highest thing I could think of, and that was going down to [inaudible 00:07:01], um, or going SO.

613: And, uh, I don't know much, like, of a help I'm gonna be, because I don't think I was necessarily dead-set on being an SO when I came here. It was more so just, like, pursuing the highest, like, possible thing I could perceive, and then, like, felt like something would work out from it. Um, so it was kinda more so just kind of... I felt like something would work out with-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: ... with this whole process. And, um, I didn't necessarily drop on... I mean, I did end up DOR'ing on my own accord because it would, it had worked better long term. But I actually got in trouble for an alcohol-related incident. So it was, like, kinda pushed on me to leave.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay.

613: Um, like, I didn't really have an option, and it would've... it was better for my career to actually just say bye DOR. Um, so... but I do think that, I think that they've opened up a world of opportunity and there're, like, multiple routes I can through this. And also, I, I mean, the big goal is to kinda learn about myself and the world around me, and I think that just leaving home and being put through, like, bootcamp and coming out here and being the part of the pi-... At least, like, even being a part of the, like, the p- plan for the few weeks I was in it, just, like, taught me a lot. And there was-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: So I'm grateful for the experience.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: What about growing up? So you talk about, you know, being from Fort Wayne. Is there any experiences that you think when you were growing up that were like life-shaping, things that changed you or made you go in one direction or another?

613: Um, I don't think that... I mean, I had a pretty, um, I guess, easy childhood, uh, relatively speaking. Um, I went to a pretty well... Like, I lived in a pretty well-to-do area, like a lot of, like, pretty much middle class America. Um, not a whole lot of, like, violence or anything. Very, like, high-end school. Uh, I'd say the biggest, like, shift didn't really come until, like, college time, from the transition from high school to college, right? I never really had to deal with anything uncomfortable. And that kinda shook me up a little bit.

613: Uh, at the same time I was kinda dealing with my first serious relationship and I will say that that was prob-, like, the most life-altering event of my life, uh, and up until this date. Um, but, yeah, just completely, like, shook my world view and changed my perspective on a lotta things. And, uh, kind of... Yeah. That was kinda where, like... Even to this day it's kinda where I see, like, the biggest shift from like who I was before and after, type deal, I guess.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative). So did that have an impact on your training or, you know, in your experience here?

613: Oh, no. Absolutely not. I mean, that's been six years ago. I think I've, like, I've gotten, like, I processed through that. But, and I don't think in terms of, like, this, uh, experience specifically, I don't think that had any-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay.

613: ... communication like-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: No. That's... Thank you.

613: ... specifically. Yeah.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: That's good. So what made you join the Navy, specifically? I know you said you were kinda looking for yourself, but-

613: Yeah.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... I'm a Army guy. Why, why pick the Navy?

613: (Laughs) Uh, it's a really good question. I... In college multiple times there, like, I was just like, why am I here? I don't even know if I really wanna be here. Like, I'm kinda just going more to, like, appease my parents and, like, tell them I got a degree. Um, but every time I, like, thought about dropping out I was like, all right. There was always in the back of my mind, like, just join the Navy, or, like, you could go join the Navy. I don't know why it came from... 'Cause even growing up, like, I didn't know there were other branches. Like, when I thought military, I just only thought Army, so, like-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: ... like, as a kid. But then I got to the point... You're, like, your college, I was just like multiple times throughout each semester I was just like, "Just go join the Navy. Just do it." And then as soon as I graduated, like, that didn't, obviously, I didn't think that anymore. So I just kinda bounced around trying different things.

613: And then, uh, I just, I mean, I remember watching... reading books, uh, on like the SEALs and, um, thought, like, well let's go join the Navy and see what happens. Actually, I just walked into the office not really looking for anything in particular, just kinda seeing what they had to offer and, um, based on, like, scores and stuff. And then, like, my physical times, um, like PST times and stuff, uh, the route kinda just ended up working out, um, to get you there. But, I don't think there was anything really, like, it was those for...

613: Oh, also, (laughs) once I did get to, like, the point where I was coming in, I found out that it was only branch set, wouldn't allow me join with, like, visible tattoos. So that's-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Oh.

613: ... that was kinda like the big-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay.

613: ... like, there really wasn't an option to go to a branch.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. I didn't realize that either. Okay. Okay. And then, um, I'm gonna ask you this question. Don't read too much into since you've got your background, but what motivates you on a daily basis, would you say?

613: Um, I think just like a sense of adventure, I guess. Um, kinda learning continually. Uh, I don't think there's really... I think at one point in my life kind of I was kinda, like, hoping I'd just like... and I don't know where it comes from, but I was kinda hoping, like, I'd just get somewhere and, like, or, like, I look at my parents, who my, like, my dad is like a very content person and doesn't really, like, seem to, like, do anything else. I... he's, like, his job that he's had for so many years and... I just, I don't know, I, I feel very curious, I guess. Like, I have a lot of curiosity and, um, instead of, like, trying to call that, I guess, kinda maybe looking more to pursue that. And just like... I don't know. Just like be alive and experience, like, being alive I think is the most invigorating aspect of, like, doing things. Trying new things, uh, just experimenting a little bit.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: As opposed to, like, shooting for a 401(k), like, just try different things.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Yeah. And you think that's the same now as before, before you came to BUD/S?

613: Oh, a little bit, yeah. Yeah, absolutely.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: All right. Great. And then describe your experience at BUD/S. I mean, you talked a little bit about, you know, with the alcohol. But, uh, the process to getting here. You went to bootcamp and-

613: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... then what?

613: And then, um-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: So was it on your contract to... that you were gonna be a SEAL?

613: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay.

613: Yeah. So I had an SO contract. Um, went through the initial bootcamp, and then graduated that in about September, I think. And then got shipped straight out here. Um, we... This is the first program where I guess first class out here that was doing the prep in, uh, San Diego. Um, so there were a lot of, like, I think they were trying to figure it out just as much as, like, we would kinda try to figure out. Um, there were a lot of, like, moving parts, I guess. There's a lot, like, not really knowing what to do with us for a certain amount of time.

613: I was... So for, like, the month or so before prep started, uh, there was a good portion of, like, them just trying to find stuff for us to do, I guess. Um, and then prep started. And, um, we signed up Page 13 that said we weren't going to do certain things, like have alcohol on base, leave base, uh, take supplements, stuff like that. Um, we were just training multiple times a day. Uh, we- we'd be up at, like, I guess, I'd wake up at 5:00 and then we'd have to, like, get, uh, breakfast as a class at 6:00. Um, and then we'd basically be doing two sets of evolutions, uh, every day. Um, so whether that was, like, pool comp or swimming or weightlifting or doing repeats on the beach or obstacle course stuff, um, it was just... that's kinda what it entailed.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay. And, uh, tell me about a time... Well, let's go back to the other thing. So you said you signed a thing that said no alcohol, no s-, no, um, supplements, stuff like that.

613: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: But I've heard a lot of people talk about different things that people do to, you know, keep their body ready to go. Um, do you think it was, um, uh, let's see. I'm trying to think about how to even ask this. Were there quite a few people in your class, would you say, that had issues or that disregarded the things, you know, that they signed on that 13, that Page 13, or whatever you called it?

613: Um, well, I mean, I guess, I've already, like, yeah. Absolutely. Um, not to get, like, too much into the specifics of my story, but, uh-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Well, if you wanna get into it, I'm happy to, to hear it.

613: Okay. Um, I mean I, I... This, I don't really want... This won't affect anyone in that class, will it?

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: No.

613: No? Okay.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: In fact, you're not associated with this, 'cause remember we only used your, um, the... your number.

613: Oh, okay.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: So.

613: Um-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: And they don't listen, nobody else listens to these. We just give them a summary.

613: Okay. Um, so, yeah. I mean, so we signed that Page 13 and, um, it was the last weekend that we had, uh, that we could go off base. Um, there was, there was really never a time where alcohol was allowed in the barracks, but we just... we weren't allowed off base. And, um, I had a buddy in another program who, um, wanted to come by, uh, and asked if I would, like, wanna do something that night. It was a weekend, so we weren't, like, we didn't have evolutions or anything anyways.

613: Um, and so he came by and asked if, like, he would... we wanna drink together. And I was like, like, "Yeah, Dude. Like, that's fine." like. Um, and not thinking, like, anything of it, like, thinking like I'm, I'm pretty relatively mature. I can handle my alcohol.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: It's the weekend.

613: It's the weekend. We can... and we'll, like, dispose of this without anyone ever knowing. Um, long story short, um, my roommate, uh, came back and, uh, turns out he's a little bit of a wildcard when he drinks. And, um, I ended up getting caught, uh, for... by one of our class' officers. Um, the next morning he was- wasn't in my room. Ended up getting caught, and when confronted told that... our officer that he had been drinking and it came back to me, obviously, being his roommate.

613: So they were kinda like, "Well, how'd this happen?" Um, our class' OIC told the instructors about it, and when the time came, uh, he... our OIC was kinda ripping into my roommate a little bit about it in front of the whole class. Um, and asked who else had been drinking and, like, who his roommate was. And I had to [inaudible 00:17:46] up and stand up in front of the class.

613: Um, but to answer your question, I think a lot of, like, this pipeline, uh, specifically like any special warfare, I think it, um, I think there's a big percentage or big portion of that type of person, the type of person it takes to get through that, that is willing to... and maybe not necessarily like alcohol, just because, I don't know, it seems a little bit immature to say that, like, everybody's drinking, but I think there's a lot of... it... that has a little bit of a disregard for rules as long as they're willing to, one, um, I... we had, so we had to read a book for our class, um, Gates of Fire. Um, I don't know if... Are you familiar?

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Yeah. Yeah, I read it.

613: Um, phenomenal book. Um, but there's a big... s-... and we were, like, supposed to emulate that. Um, I think that was kinda why our our OIC had us read that book was to emulate, you know, the mindset of a Spartan. And, uh, one of my favorite lines that I, like, I'll never forget from the book was... talked about how, like, when the 13-year-old boys were training, uh, to be a Spartan and they would get punished for something, they didn't get punished for doing the thing. They got punished for getting caught. And, um, I think there's a lot of, like, that mindset that needs to go into just a, a little bit of a, like, a rebellious mindset, um, being able to kinda break away from, um, maybe a set of rules, um, to do...

613: And, again, because like alcohol is such a slippery slope, but to do what you feel is right or to do it, like, if it's not affecting anyone else or it's not gonna come down on anyone else to be at, like, to be able to be an independent person and do your own thing while at the same time still, like, putting out for the team, um, and just being willing to accept the consequences of the action if you do get caught, I think that's a big portion of, like, this thing.

613: And so I think that's a little why I was disappointed with how things played out just because, like, well, I didn't really, like, do anything to get caught. But someone I was around did. And so it's like my brother's keeper-type deal.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: And, um, yeah. I do think... I think a lot of people within the pipeline, uh, were more discrete, um, and were able to get away with doing that thing. Uh, and I even, like, the next day when, um, a mas-, CO master chief was talking to me about the incident, um, he sat me down and was like, kinda... we were kinda working through the process of how to deal with it. And he asked me, you know, so I'm like, "How many people do you think were, like, drinking outside before they got caught?" And I was like, "Well, I'm not gonna tell you that.” Like, I don't wanna... like, I don't wanna disclose that and get anyone else in trouble. He's like, "I know at least half the class was drinking this weekend."

613: And even he said that, um, back when he was going through the pipeline, like, they'd be drinking every weekend and, like, doing stuff like that, um, and they would just, like, take away their alcohol and that he, like, disagreed with some of the, like, rules, I guess, of, like, how things go now. But he said, "It's just that's how it happens, and we'll find somebody to replace you. So it's, it's just how it works." (Laughs)

613: But, I mean, long story short to answer your question, I do think that a good portion of, like, what it takes is a little bit of a rebellious spirit, I think.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative). A tough one. Okay. So is there anything you would've done differently knowing what you know now about your experience?

613: Um, if it's right or wrong, I don't know. But I definitely wouldn't have stood up when... I, I have no issue, uh, with the decision I made to, like, to drink that weekend and just because I had assessed the situation and felt that I could, I mean-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: ... just hang out with a buddy and enjoy the weekend. But I probably wouldn't have stood up when asked if I was involved at all, just-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: ... because I didn't do anything, in my eyes, that was, uh, wrong other than breaking what I had signed, so.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: So I think we started with this, but a lot of people leave BUD/S for whatever reason, and then they go to the fleet for a year or two and then they decide they wanna come back. Would you ever consider coming back?

613: Um, I don't wanna say never, because I don't know what the next three years or four years will look like, but I just think that it takes a lot of energy and a pretty particular special type of person to do this job. Um, like, I was, like I said already, kind of joining it a little bit more for the experimental aspects, um, and to just kinda learn about myself and the world.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: Um, but I think, like, through that process I realized that my strong suits aren't necessarily... could be utilized elsewhere better. Um, so I think that regardless of what the next few years looks like for me, um, whatever job I end up getting, I think that after that I think a career elsewhere would be, uh, better than rejoining of-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay.

613: ... having to do this again.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: So how do you think this experience changed you as a person?

613: Um, hmm. That's a good question. I think at... I mean, it's definitely kind of shattered my ego a little bit and my perspective on life in terms of, like, maybe there is a little bit of me before I joined that thought like I needed to do something outside of myself, I guess. Um, and going through this I realized that it's not necessarily the case. I also think that it shaped a lot of, like, teaching me about what I am actually good at and what I'm, what... maybe I could've made it through a little bit longer if this situation hadn't brought itself up.

613: But at the same time, like, I guess just, like, how I was made isn't necessarily... I don't think I'm equipped to do that job as well as someone else or a lot of the other guys who are, like, very clearly made to do something like this, would do, like, would do as well, so. I do think that it has been very eye-opening and enlightening, but, uh, yeah. I think it was very... two-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Okay.

613: ... two things.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: And then so we're writing articles about how... what it takes and what people learn from this whole experience. Is there anything else I should've asked you that I didn't that you think would've been helpful for you as, you know, two years ago looking at something like this? If you would've read, you know, one of your articles in your leadership class about what it's like to be a Navy SEAL, what would you want your prior self to know?

613: Mm-hmm (affirmative). Um, maybe that's not all it's cracked up to be. I think the world is, like, very good at making it seem very glamorous and, uh, and it's... I mean, I guess that's kinda how a lot of things are with the idea of everything is typically way better than what it actually is. But it's like, it's just... it's still like I came in so what I, like, what I told some of my buddies after, uh, leaving and we have all kinda come to the, like, consensus on this, but, uh, I think I joined thinking, like, I'm excited to go in and do the things that I... we've already talked about and, like, learn about myself and see what, like, see what that pipeline's actually like.

613: But also to kind go in and meet a bunch of like-minded people in certain aspects. Um, I think that I have at least personally had an issue, uh, with meeting, uh, people that can match, like, my intensity in certain things, and, like, I was looking forward to that coming here. And I will say that, like, a lot of the guys... I went through bootcamp with a good portion of special warfare guys and, um, there was a lot of similarities, and that was, like, refreshing, I guess.

613: But on the flip side of the coin I came in, like, expecting, like, a new family, and, like, uh, like a bunch of, like, really solid people and a bunch of really solid guys. And, uh, I got here and... I'm not saying that there aren't... that there isn't that within the program, but it just... it reminded me of a lot of high school again, uh, because a lot of, like, catty, like BS and stuff, and just a lot of, like, gossip. And it was, like, holy smokes. It's like I had... like, you come here thinking you're gonna join one of the most elite teams in the world, and it's gonna be different than almost every other organization you've been a part of.

613: And you realize that, I mean, it's still full of people and people, like, everyone's gonna have, like, certain flaws and stuff and you're still gonna have to deal with the human nature of things. And, um, that was just, that was very eye-opening to me that it's not like... And I, I believe probably as you get further down the pipeline, like, you get a lot more of that brother's keeper and you get a lot more of that, like, the friendly, brotherly-type love. And especially like when you're actually, like, going through shit together and, like, going through-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: ... the hardest, like, I mean, you've made it through all this together as a group. And I think there's, like, there's a lot of bondage that comes from shared hard experiences, but, like, at least early on, I think (laughs) that's a lot of, like, the getting through it is, like, there are just so many catty little groups within a group of 300 guys. And, like, a whole bunch of... like, way more drama than I anticipated (laughs). So that's, that was a very big eye-opener is that it wasn't really like... and I guess I didn't know what to expect coming in. I tried to, like, leave my expectations at the door.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Mm-hmm (affirmative).

613: But I guess I, in retrospect, I didn't expect at all that it would be so dramatic.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: But do you think it's 'cause you're older, maybe?

613: Potentially a little bit. But I will, I mean, I will also say that a lot of, like, the, a lot of the drama I saw came from older guys in leadership positions as well. Um, and I (laughs), I am not saying that I'm glad I wasn't in those positions, because that's a lot more... I mean, it's already a stressful thing to be going through, but, like, I... I don't know. I just... It- It's a good, it was a good firsthand experience and whether I agree with a lot of the things that our OIC said. Uh, one thing earlier on was that it's a "blank" one of these social experiments in the world, and I'm glad at least got to observe a little bit of that, because it was very interesting to be there firsthand and, like, see how, uh, the social dynamic works.

613: But just like hearing from people who've gone through classes in the past talk about how, uh, like, you'll be going through, like, pure hell, um, and you'll be doing it with your class. And then the instructors will, like, latch onto someone and be like, "Once this guy quits, like, uh, you guys can be done, like, getting beat," or whatever. And, uh, then the whole class will just turn on that guy. I think that's very, very... that's crazy. It's like it... And, uh, you don't know really who you are until you actually put yourself in that situation, 'cause I'd love to say, like, oh, that wouldn't be, but I don't think anyone really knows until you get there. It's kinda like the Stanford Prison Experiment of like-

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Oh, yes.

613: ... you just ac-... like, you take on a role and, like, that role becomes you and you fail to see, like, yourself and another person. And I just... I don't know. It was cool to see firsthand, I guess is more, really more than anything. Uh, but, yeah.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: Well, thank you so much for not opting out when so many of your-

613: Yeah.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... former classmates did. Uh, let me just stop this. Um, but that your... was fascinating to listen to you, so thank you-

613: Yeah.

Dr. Deirdre Dixon: ... for, for, uh, being willing to do that.

613: Actu-
