TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Kacor

Date: 1/24/2022

Participant #: 655

Interviewer (Code in blue): CDR Andrew Ledford

Participant (Code in black): #655



Interview Guide



Okay, are you okay with me recording this, this because as we go through this, I can't take notes as fast as you speak. And this again stays with me in Annapolis, Maryland, we don't put it out anywhere else it's gonna get transcribed. And then these things all get destroyed, but it stays with all this. Cool? Alright. So it is five January 2022. This is Andrew Ledford and I am with 655…655. So, what, what phase did you leave? 



First phase 



Your first phase? Or were you with 351?



351, yes sir



351? Okay. First phase… where were you at in first phase? Is it like first week, second week, third week? 



First week



First week, since about 10 weeks ago. Can you tell me a little bit about your childhood? 

Were you like, parents together? Do you have siblings? Did you move around a lot? Any sports? 



Parents were separated when I was 12. I have siblings, but I don't know any of them. And I did move around a lot. My father and I were homeless for the majority of my childhood from 12 years old to about 17. 



And when we go through these questions, like answer what you're comfortable with, like there's no pressure here. Yeah, if you're not comfortable answering just don't answer it. I'm cool with that, so. So if someone was going to ask you about your personality, with three different traits, or how would you define yourself with three different traits? What would they be? 

Honestly, I'm not entirely sure. After not making in BUD/S and having to figure out who I am again. Honestly…



Yeah, so that's a good point. Um, how did you define yourself before?



determined 



And remind me, remind me, to talk about, to remind me to say something to you once we're done with this, okay? 



Yeah, I was determined, goal oriented as a hard worker. 



Okay. So going back five years prior to before coming here, what, what were you doing for the five years beforehand? 



I was a coach for our team at the climbing gym I worked at. I also managed there was a route setter. Before that I was a CTA, which is a physical therapy assistant, assistant, like, like, basically, same thing as a physical therapist. 



Yeah. Physical therapist. How long did you do that? 



Two years for that, and then I worked, I was route setting for gyms, on and off for 12 years. In the last three years, I was permanently a route setter and a manager and a coach there. 



12 years? Ha ha. Um,  thinking back to all your experiences before coming here, what are ones that kind of molded you? Like what shaped you as a individual, like ones that would stick out like this definitely was something that made me who I am. 



Uh, When my parents split, my mother was pretty abusive and had her problems. Absolutely. And then going through homelessness with my dad and seeing the struggles that he had and that we both had. So that I believe formed a great deal of that. 



Yeah. How do you think these experiences impacted you in training? 



Well up until BUD/S, it made me extremely hard headed, cause I was told I was a failure by my mother and a mistake that had never amounted to anything. So I did a great deal to try to push back on that and have some sense of purpose. That's what I wanted and to do some good and to help people And I was told a great deal during my life of different hobbies that I did that I wouldn't be able to do something and I always pushed past that up until BUD/S.



Can you describe your background that led you to join the Navy?



Uh, I originally was going to join to help my dad because he had cancer. And he was homeless again and in debt so I was going to join for that and then I found out about the SEAL program through the Senior Chief SEAL that ran the DEP program down in Tennessee. And he approached me about it because I used to fight and skydive and shot all the time… the mixture of all the things I used to do he thought I’d be a good fit.



What motivates you on a daily basis?



Before BUD/S or now? 



Let's talk about before and then I’d like to talk about now, yeah 



Before, when I found out that the SEAL program was open to women that was everything that…and to try and take care of my dad and help him and then trying to become a SEAL was everything I cared about.



Can you describe your experience at BUD/S?



first phase or all of it? 



Uh all of it



kinda of hard to. My body just didn't hold up. So that was frustrating. It kept breaking down, kept getting injured, couldn't perform to the standard that I needed to under boats and logs. 



How, how is it breaking down? Just muscle failure, like getting to the point of..? Muscle failure and you just couldn’t..



my physical,  my nervous system was just crashed and I had multiple injuries that came on during training. 



What injuries, like were they stress fractures or ?



I had stress fractures the first injury and I came back from that into my second class. Um, From this class, though, I had a herniated disc that's getting surgery and bilateral labrum tears in my hips, which will need surgery and also my left knee and right shoulder are messed up. And they'll be getting injections, also. 



So besides your shoulders, your hips, your knees, your good though, right? and your back, besides all that you though. Shoulders to and you're getting, so there, you're on the hook getting those surgeries ? 



Uh, back surgery will be on the 18th for herniated disc.



Got it, so first phase, talk about first phase. So that was buds in general, but can you, what about your experience in first phase? 



I only was there for a day, 24 hours. 



Oh yeah, 



I don’t think I’m a great fit for the survey because of my lack of time in the first phase. 



Well, but still, I mean, you had a little bit of time. So interaction with your classmates, interaction with the instructors, and BO, you ya know you went through BO. 



Yeah, a long time. Uh, I mean, my classmates and I were all very close. It was, that was fantastic. Up until it came time for boats and logs,  it got a bit political and strange. And the instructors took note of that and got very upset about it. Nobody wanted to run boat with me because they thought being a female they would have too much attention. So some of my closest friends even stacked boat crews. That way they wouldn't have to run with me and have the instructors watch. 



Interesting



So. But up until that point we were all it was like brothers. 



So you saw that and that was in BO? Or that, that that happened in first face?



First phase and we had double log PT and land Po that was on the schedule as IBSs but it was land po, so we had to have both all in one one day. 



So the instructors, were they getting mad at you? Or they getting mad at them? 

They got upset at the class, the instructor, I've never, ever been treated badly by instructors, they've all been amazing from, BO, PTRR, all the way through first phase. Yes.



So when the instructors were going after some of the classmates for doing that, but then that turnaround and so then that turned on made them? 



Well, I, we were, our proctor and the OIC of first phase, so all the instructors saw what the guys had done. And they were extremely upset, instructed Durim during our proctor time when we had secured on one day, he called it out on the class for stacking boat crews, and he was incredibly upset, and so he was going to, like, hand pick the headline to make sure that nobody was stacking boat crews, and that it’d be correct, but that's when I went up to him after the proctor brief, and I just told him that there was no way I was going to be able to perform, perform to the standard. 



Hmm



My body was shutting down, and I knew if I stayed with the current boat crew, I was going to get a lot of extra BUD/S that I could not maintain. 



Yeah



And then if I went into the boat crew with my prior friends, they would run me out because they wanted to secure. So.. I felt like I had a losing situation. I couldn't even move the next day though, so I would have been completely useless…as a whole. 



So my next question is probably what you were just talking about. The next question is supposed to be uh is there a time you have to make a difficult decision? That'd be that'd be the most difficult one, obviously. 



I, I, there was no, I couldn't hardly walk the next day. And I lost all feeling in my right leg. It was during double,  the second long PT we had the day that I felt my back go. And, they were going to do o-course and multitude, and they had an actual scheduled land Po, there is no way that I could do that, I couldn't keep under the boat. I couldn't even walk. So there is no way that I could perform and I would was… a liability to myself and everyone else. I had received a lot of extra BUD/S that day with my boat crew. 



Is there anything that you would have done differently? 



Yes, I would have put on a lot more muscle. I was 117, 116. After one one day, I was too small…I would have trained speed under load also, so I could have been faster under the boat. I was strong under the boat, but it wasn't fast enough to be able to run with the guys, like I, I'd mentioned if I'd gotten in a boat crew with those guys who were wanting to secure I wouldn't have been able to keep up they would have ran me out, which they admitted, and apologized for what they did later on. 



Did they really apologize for ?



after everything, yeah, everybody came up to, like my boat crew that did that, came up and shook my hand apologized. 



Hmmm, interesting…Uh…So more speed under load, running under load? 



And just more general weight, that way I wouldn't have broken down as much, I think 



more muscle mass, weight, yeah. 



I was way too small, I believe.



So are you interested in coming back? 



I can’t. I'm going to be 29 in February, it would take years to come back. And my body can't handle it now, it's not going to handle it as I get older. I also don't think I could handle another failure like that. I just can't do it again. 



Were there any practices that you utilized that could have been done differently? Or that I'm sorry, any practices, like physical, mental or spiritual that you used to push through challenges? 



Can you repeat..?



So are there, were there any kind of practices that you used often, like daily, like physical practices or mental practices, spiritual that helped you get through? 



No, I just kind of thought through 



how do you think, has this changed you as a person?



 it's changed everything. I don't even know who I am. 

Okay, all right ,um, do you have any questions for us in this?



No, i don’t think so



All right, I’m gonna stop the recording here
