TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Kacor

Date: 1/26/2022

Participant #: 656

Interviewer (Code in blue): Dr. Deirdre Dixon

Participant (Code in black): #656



Interview Guide



Okay



So you asked the question, I think it was, I think it was what would you, what would you say to someone who is about to go through buds, or what's the one question you wish that I'd asked? Um, talking to my brother after we quit, um, we talked about uh things we would do differently in preparation for for BUD/S and going through the pipeline, uh one of the biggest mistakes I think we made was not talking to people who had quit. We would, a lot of our friends who had been through BUD/S had made it, um and anytime we would seek help from someone or advice, we would talk to guys we knew who were seals or guys, we knew who had me through hell week. Um but we never got the opinions of people who had not made it through um and I think that what that would have given us was, uh we would have, we would have learned mistakes other people made, and we would, you know, get more information on what they would have done differently or what their downfall was, so that we might have been a little more aware of what happens to all these guys who quit, who are good guys, they, you know, they sacrifice for everybody, and they're, you know, they're very selfless, but maybe like, physically, they didn't do something to prepare, um and that hurt them in the long run. Or, you know, like, what was their mindset in a difficult situation. How would they have reacted differently to that? Um in hindsight? So, yeah, I think, I think one thing I would say to someone who's going through the pipeline is talk to people who haven't made it through. Don't, don't be worried about, you know, negativity, because if I've, right now, if I did speak to someone who was about to go through the pipeline, I mean, I wouldn't be negative, I'd be excited for them, and I would want to make sure that they didn't make the same mistakes that I had made. So if I could speak to them, you know, I'd say, hey, look, you need to run more, you need to ruck more, you need to do this at this pace. Whereas someone who had made it through might say, Oh, it's fine, you know, I was fine, so you'll be fine. I, we’re in similar shape, so you're probably going to be fine, and that's obviously what I got from a lot of people who had made it through was: Oh, so you're an athlete, um you’re a, you’re a good dude, like, you'll be okay, and it was kind of like left at that. There was no like specifics like hey, ruck at a 9:30 pace for four miles. Um, you know, do more like neck exercises for when you're running with a boat on your head. Um, now now realizing it, you know, you learn more from, from not making it through because you keep thinking over all the mistakes that you made and what you would have done differently, whereas someone who made it through is like, I crushed that, you know, like I didn't have any problems. Um, so that's definitely, so I think that's one of the biggest things I would have done differently as well. 



Thank you.
