TRANSCRIBER NAME: ENS Bondarowicz

Date: 1/26/2022

Participant #: 667

Interviewer (Code in blue): Dr. Patti Collette Miles

Participant (Code in black): #667





Dr. Miles: So my name is Patty Collette Miles, and I'm going to interview participant 667 today on 6, January, 2022. So first, can you please give me your participant ID number?



667: 667. 



Dr. Miles: Okay, great. All right. So, um, like I was telling you, first thing I wanted to ask you about is for you to tell me just a little bit about, you know your childhood, who, who you live with? How many siblings, where he went to school, that kind of stuff. 



667: Okay. So I grew up, my parents were both still together. They've been married ever since I was born. Uh I grew up in Texas. Uh, I've been in the same house the whole time, basically from the time I was five to when I graduated high school and my parents still lived there.



Dr. Miles: Okay. How many siblings? 



667: Two siblings. Younger brother. Younger sister. So I'm the oldest of three. 



Dr. Miles: Okay. And, um, where in Texas, just out of curiosity?



667: Georgetown, about 30 miles north of Austin. 



Dr. Miles: Georgetown? I used to live there. Georgetown. Yeah. Well, it was, I was stationed at Fort hood and my husband at the time was, um, getting his master's degree at UT and our town was in between. That's where we lived. That's wild as well. I've never met another person who lived in Georgetown, Texas. 



667: Growing way too fast.



Dr. Miles: Yeah. Yeah. It was teeny town. I moved there in 1984. No 1987. And it was just It's totally crazy now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Cause we moved back to Texas, but I lived there. Yeah. Wow. Okay. So, um, you went to high school where?



667: Georgetown high school 



Dr. Miles: Georgetown…And how big is that? Or was it then 



667: class sizes is about 700. 



Dr. Miles: Okay. So not too big. Yeah. And then did you play any sports in school?



667: Baseball, I played baseball. I played football growing up. For six years of football. 



Dr. Miles: But not in high school?



667: I played my freshman year of high school. 



Dr. Miles: Okay. And then, but then baseball, after that baseball?



667: Just baseball. 



Dr. Miles: And then after high school,what'd you do? 



667: I went to two years of junior college, three college at temple, played baseball there as well. And then I went to the university of Arkansas, played baseball there, finished up there and got my bachelor's degree.



Dr. Miles: Okay. So you get your bachelor's degree from the university of Arkansas. And you played baseball as division one. Right? And did you play any more baseball after?



667: I did, I played on the the San Diego Padres for a year and then 



Dr. Miles: Like the farm team? 



667: Yeah, um I was with the minor league. 



Dr. Miles: Um, what was it like division AA, AAA, whatever?



667: Yeah, AA, AAA, I wasn't that high. I played rookie ball and then I played a little bit of short season, which is you know, one of the lower levels. And then I played another year and a half independent baseball, which is basically a non-affiliated league, trying to get picked back up. So, yeah. 



Dr. Miles: Wow. But it didn't get picked back up or you just changed your plans? 

667: No, I did not. So I got released from the Padres in 2016, so, and then that's basically cut, you know, and then I've got picked back up by an independent league which is basically a non-affiliated organization 



Dr. Miles: Where, where was the independent team?



667: It was in Kansas City. 



Dr. Miles: Okay. And did you like that? 



667: Yeah, it was fun. 



Dr. Miles: You just spend all day playing baseball, right? What's not to like about that, right? Yeah. Sounds kind of fun to me. Okay. So in the five years before you came to BUD/S, um, kind of what briefly, what did you do and.



667: Play some baseball. I played baseball up until 2018. Okay. And then this come at BUD/S came into picture of probably 2017, 2016, 2017, I started thinking about it. And what made you 



Dr. Miles: And what think about it? 



667: Hmm, that's a good question. I just was, I've always been, uh, I guess, attracted to or intrigued by the military. Especially, you know, combat units. So that's always been something I've looked up to. So once I, I guess I kind of discovered the SEAL Teams…



Dr. Miles: How did you discover them?



667: I was actually turned on to a podcast by a friend. Um, and then, you know, the movies and stuff, podcasts…



Dr. Miles: What Podcast?



667: Jocko podcast, 



Dr. Miles: Jocko? Oh hkay. That's the guy that was the SEAL And then he, he's done a lot of other things. I didn't, I actually didn't know. He did a podcast after. 



667: Um, so yeah, and then I listened to some of his bar read some of his books. And, and then I was hooked.



Dr. Miles: did you read, um, Lone Survivor? 



667: I did not. I've watched the movie.



Dr. Miles: Cause Lone Survivor, um, is about a guy from Texas 



667: Yeah Marcus Luttrell…



Dr. Miles: Yeah Marcus Luttrell, who was actually, um, in Commander Ledford’s BUD/S class.Yeah, I learned that last night. 



667: Oh really? Oh yeah he actually just told us a story about that



Dr. Miles: Yeah, it's crazy. Um, okay. So, um, you played sports, we got that. Um, uh, the background that led you to the Navy, we talked about that. Okay. So then what motivates you, you seem like a pretty motivated guy, like what motivates you on a daily basis to get up and make the best of yourself?



667: I guess, really just knowing that if you don't and you want to live a fulfeeling life fulfilling. I mean at the end of the day, when I'm on my death bed, I want to be able to look back and be proud. So, I mean, it's not easy. Like I don't do stuff because I want to do like, it's more because I know if I don't, then I will regret.



Dr. Miles: Yeah. Right. Oh, that's pretty admirable. Right. So tell me, um, in BUD/S, was there a time when you had to make a difficult decision that, you know, you really kind of struggled with like, what should I choose this or that? 



667: Uh, not really. I mean, it was pretty straightforward, cut and dry in my opinion, do what you're told. I mean, be where you're supposed to be and see if you got to it takes, I guess. 



Dr. Miles: Yeah right. And have your stuff clean, I think is also important. Yeah. Yeah. So you didn't have any situations where, I mean, I don't know, I've just been told little stories about your boat, cruise and moral stuff and logs and stuff.



667: Yeah, I guess, uh, there were some instances choosing boat crews where, you know, guys kind of look out for themselves. And I was, I was a part of that a time or two, 



Dr. Miles: like, can you tell me more about that? Like… 

667: Um, just really getting with a bunch of guys that you, you want to be. And you just stick together. Right? I mean, there was never an instance where it's, we were being jerks about it, you know, but it was kinda like, I, I was a part of this, like once or twice, so it wasn't you know, and our boat crews would get split up and it wasn't that big of a deal, but we tried to, you know, work the system, right. 



Dr. Miles: Oh, I know these guys are good, so I'm going to feel it them or whatever. I don't want to be with those people. They're not as good. Okay. That kind of stuff. Um, then, um, if you could go back into BUD/S and do something different, um, would you, would you do anything different or, but, but actually wait, before you answer that, I messed up. I want to ask you first, tell me what happened in BUD/S. So tell me your experience with buds. What happened? Why are you sitting here? And then we'll go to that. If you had, could change something.



667: So it was really Land Portage that really, which is running boats on heads. I'm sure you probably know. Yeah. Um, I’m sure you probably know.



Dr. Miles: well, I haven't personally done it, but I have heard about it.



667: Uh, I didn't really have like logs. I thought they were hard. You know, the sss, the runs I had no problem. Everything was fine, but it was Land Portage, um, Land Portage that was really 



Dr. Miles: running around with the boat on your head. Yeah. 



667: Yeah. We did the one at BO, which is orientation. And I remember at the end of that, I was like, holy cow that was the hardest thing I've ever done. Uh, my legs were cramped, both legs were cramping up and us getting ready to pass out. Which, which, I mean, that happens to a lot of guys. So I mean that's no, 



Dr. Miles: is it so hard? Is it that the boat’s heavy 



667: Heavy or, I mean, the boat's heavy, you run it through soft sand. You're basically sprinting. You have instructors all around you. I mean the one in BO was three miles. Yeah. 



Dr. Miles: 3 miles of running and soft sand with a boat on your head 



667: Yeah as fast as you can. And if you. And it's a pretty ruthless race. I mean, it's a race, so guys are trying to cut you off. Um, I mean, people just ram into you with their boats. I mean, it's ruthless. It was an experience. Um, and if you don't finish in the top, probably half you get remediated halfway



Dr. Miles: Which just makes it harder



667: Yeah. So, I mean, instead of sitting on a boat and drink of water, you're running remediation laps, and you know, doing squats. But I remember after that, I was like, that was the hardest thing I've done.I've done. And yeah, the one in Phase was much worse. Well, it wasn't much worse, but it was, it was much longer. 



Dr. Miles: How far is the one in phase that you have to do? 



667: Probably five to six miles. Yeah



Dr. Miles: out on this beach out here?



667: Yeah. It's on the beach. 



Dr. Miles: Oh yeah. Great. So you have to run down to some point and then turn aroun d and come back. That's the way it works? 



667: You’re running through soft sand for about mile and a half, and then you get onto the beach by the water and you go another mile, mile and a half down the beach, and then we turned around and just do a reverse. 



Dr. Miles: And so was that, what did you end in BUD/S or what, what made you stop



667: that's what that's, what did me in.



Dr. Miles: So at what point in BUD/S  were you?



667: Day 2. I was Day 2 



Dr. Miles: Day 2 of Phase one, and you were doing this five mile. Both carry thing. And so you just, what made you decide to stop? 



667: Uh, well, I fell out on my boat, which means we are running and I just couldn't keep up. So I went as long as I could and then I fell and then I got back up, got back into my boat and then we started going even further south.And I was like, no, I'm not doing this I'm to, yeah. 

Dr. Miles: And so you just stopped. And then what did you do? 



667: Um, go up to Instructor, tell him you're done. And then you hop in the back of the truck and you basically follow the class and follow them all the way back. 



Dr. Miles: So how did that feel to you? I mean, like, was that a weird time? 



667: Yeah it was a weird, it was very weird. I mean, you trained for years, you know, and it's just gone like that. 



Dr. Miles: And did you have any regret or were you happy or. 



667: Uh, you know, mixed emotions. Um, I mean, if I didn't have a conscious mind, I would've kept going, you know? So at the end of the day I quit, which, you know, no one likes to admit that, you know.



Dr. Miles: Right. But you tried. 



667: Yeah. Yeah. But there is that realistically. Yeah. 



Dr. Miles: You're here, which is really very cool. Anyway, so yeah. Wow. So, okay. So now thinking about that, Well, how would you describe like yourself? You know, the paper says, you know, what are your personality traits are three personality traits. But like when someone else is thinking about you, what do they think of?



667: uh, introverted hard worker, uh, you know, athletic kind, you know?



Dr. Miles: Right? And you. That's interesting that you say you're introverted. So, um, so in your family, did you tell me, like, what's the makeup of the kids in the family? 



667: I have a younger sister she's older than my younger brother, so my brother's the youngest 



Dr. Miles: So you’re just the oldest of three. Okay. All right. Um, okay, so that's all good information. All right. So then, um, make a different way to demo and then. Is there anything you would've done differently, hat buds, or maybe to prepare for BUD/S? 



667: I would've, I would have trained my legs more. I actually have been dealing with knee knee problems for the past, probably year and a half, which have prevented me from doing a lot of strength training.

Dr. Miles Oh 



667: I'm not, you know, I'm not saying that's why, but yeah. 



Dr. Miles: What position did you play in baseball? 



667: Uh, catcher



Dr. Miles: I've heard about that when you said that about your knees. Yeah. Right. So they're kind of trashed. 



667: Yeah. So I had, uh, I, she got rolled back in prep because my knee flared up real bad and I couldn't whatever. Um, but yeah, I would just, I think if, cause I felt weak on those runs compared to other people. I think if I felt strong, I would have kept going, you know, but I felt weak. 



Dr. Miles: So in the Boat Portage as you call it. And you know, when he felt like he couldn't do it anymore, was it your legs giving out or your lungs



667: Legs back um, yeah, just 



Dr. Miles: Alright, just carrying it. You can't just set it on your shoulder and stroll along 



667: No put it on your head. Put it on your head and sprint. 



Dr. Miles: Could you, when you put it on your head, can it sit on your head or do you have to be a little above your head? 



667: So you got these D-rings with a handle attached and theres 3 D-rings on each side. Yeah. There's three D-Rings on each side. So you hold on a D-ring and you try and secure on your head as best you can. But when you run it, it's bouncing on your head, you know?



Dr. Miles: So the round rubber part is like bouncing on your head, like a ball, right? Yeah. So it's not like just resting there and then that really affects your neck. I would guess



667: Yeah, your neck and your back…



Dr. Miles: Four back and neck with all that weight. How much of those things weigh? 



667: I don't know exactly, but I would say anywhere from 80 to 130 pounds somewhere in that range.  



Dr. Miles: That's a lot. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's a heavy thing. Even, even split across six people. Yeah. And running sprinting in the future. Be challenging, I say. Um, all right. So then do you think that, um, as you went through BUD/S, did you do anything that kind of helped you get your head straight, your head getting the right head space?



667: I mean, I was only in for a Day and three quarters, 



Dr. Miles: but I'm going to were in BO and BO was no cakewalk either. 



667: You have BO, no cakewalk, but I mean, I didn't find BO that, you know, other than Land Portage, that was the only time I can. I was like, holy shit. That was hard. 



Dr. Miles: So like when you're on the water and you're cold, what did you think of?



667: I just thought I was like, this is, this is how it is. Like, this is. This is what it is. Yeah. And like, yeah, cause I've taken quite a few ice baths and you know, so that, wasn't that big of a shock to my system. I never, I mean, never to that extent. Um, 



Dr. Miles: And the swimming you were okay with that? 



667: Uh, 



Dr. Miles: Well I guess we're only a day and a half. Yeah. I mean, I 



667: passed all of my BO swims, um, yeah.



Dr. Miles: And where are you much of a swimmer before you came here? And did you learn at some point or? 



667: Yeah,  I spent probably about a year, year and a half training, so I was decent. 



Dr. Miles: Okay. And that included, I guess, a lot of swimming and probably should have included more running, but you didn't really know that.



667: Well running.I was fine with, but it was just the running with weight. It's two different things, two different things. 

Dr. Miles: Right, right, right. There's a little hard to practice running with the boat on your head. 



667: Yeah. I mean, like leg strength general, just, you know, or just really the whole posterior chain, the back, legs. 



Dr. Miles: Really, really important, I think.



667: Yeah. Just wasn't strong enough 



Dr. Miles: Right. Now do you think that, um, he would come back to BUD/S? 



667: Ah, I mean, there is still a little, a little desire to, at this point. Um, you know, it's just, cause now. I've seen it, you know, so, but I mean, it's a huge commitment. So at this point, I don't know if I'm willing to put before that, that level of commitment.



Dr. Miles: Right. And you have to put a, it's a big commitment, several years of training before you get here. So, yeah. So, um, do you think that being at BUD/S changed you at all as a person or, 



667: oh, I'm sure. I'm sure it did. I don't know how, but yeah, 



Dr. Miles: You're not the same guy that walked in through the gates.  



667: No, I mean, I can't really put a finger on it, but I mean, just seeing that's just a whole new level.



Dr. Miles: Right, right. 



667: You know, being a part of that, it's, it's a shock to your system, you know? 



Dr. Miles: I can imagine. Yeah. Do you think that your classmates liked you and respected you? 



667: I would say so. I mean, I don't know. 



Dr. Miles: Right. But your guesses, I would assume so. Okay. And then what are you going to do now? 



667: I'm be cryptologic technician maintenance. Which computer work pretty much not the kind of cool 



Dr. Miles: That's useful anyways. Yeah. Do you already like computers or do stuff? No. Yeah. You're going to learn at all learn. Right. And when. 



667: Uh, February, beginning of February.



Dr. Miles: February. Okay. So it's January, so it's not too bad, not too much longer. And then, um, do you feel like you're kind of stuck in the Navy now? W you know, with your, 



667: uh, I mean, yeah, I kind of felt like that at first, but it slowly, you know, we still need a Navy. We need a good Navy to defend this country, you know? 



Dr. Miles: So you're gonna your part. 

667: Yeah, I'm thinking about it now. Right. 



Dr. Miles: Right. And then I guess my last question is, do you think there's any, anything I'm missing? Like, should I be asking you something else or should we be thinking in a different way about this?



667: I mean, I think, I think guys have either have it or they don't. I think they have something deep inside them. Yeah. Maybe a couple of good questions would be like, what motivated you. What, 



Dr. Miles: what made you want to come to SEAL school



667: Yeah, it was it, uh, because there were a lot of superficial reasons, you know, is it so you can look tough for your friends and see isn't so you can get the girls into the so you can, you know, is it for him? You know, those are all superficial reasons when, and when the shit hits the fan, those reasons are gone immediately and you're living. Whatever you have close to your heart. Right? I mean, if you don't have anything close to your heart and you got nothing, right. 



Dr. Miles: What motivated you to come? Ah,



667: Uhh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, 



Dr. Miles: You're a professional baseball player and you decided to stop and come to BUD/S. Yeah. 



667: Um, you know that wasn't too fulfilling, I guess. Um, and I mean, I didn't really have that good of a shot to make the big leagues, which, you know, until you make it at that point, you're living paycheck to paycheck and 



Dr. Miles: That's true, you know, um, you're not really living the dream when you're playing a minor leagues independently.



667: Yeah. Um, yeah, like I said, you know, um, I've always looked up. No combat units, especially 



Dr. Miles: Did you know anybody who was a SEAL or a special operator of any sort? 



667: No. No.



Dr. Miles: You just movies and books or whatever. Pretty much. Wow. It's admirable. You know what I mean? Like this. So I think I'll do this. I got to try to probably the hardest military thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wow. Well, thank you. Um, I really appreciate your insights. Yeah.
