TRANSCRIBER NAME: Brendan Reilly

Date: 06Jan2022

Participant #: 678

Interviewer (Code in blue): Dr. Celeste Raver Luning

Participant (Code in black): #676

Celeste: So this is Celeste Raver Luning, it is January 5th 2022 and I'm here with 676. So first question for you is what was your last BUD/S class?

676: 351

Celeste: Were you in any classes before or is that your first one? Okay and at what phase did you leave ?

676: I left in the first phase

Celeste: Okay, at what point in the first phase?

676: It was Monday at hell week.

Celeste: Okay so that was what, end of October probably.

676: I think we started... hell week started was on Halloween.

Celeste: Okay, so tell me a little bit about your childhood. Where you grew up, brother, sisters, family life.

676: I grew up here in San Diego.

Celeste: Oh okay

676: And then I have a brother whose in the army right now and a sister that has two kids. I grew up playing football. My whole life playing sports... my whole life mainly in football and yeah my parents are both still together and everything.

Celeste: Always lived in San Diego?

676: Yeah

Celeste: Where in San Diego?

676: Rancho Penasquitos

Celeste: Where?

676: Rancho Penasquitos

Celeste: So I have lived in San Diego for 11 years so I know it well and you played football you said

676: Yeap

Celeste: So if you were to describe your personality, three traits how would you describe it?

676: Its kind of hard.

Celeste: Put it closer

676: Id say hard working, committed and uh focused I guess I don't know.

Celeste: Okay what have you done in the last five years prior coming to BUD/S?

676: I went to college.

Celeste: Where did you go to college?

676: University of North Dakota

Celeste: Okay and did all four years there?

676: I did two years at Sac state and then transferred to the University of North Dakota

Celeste: Okay did you play football there or-

676: Yeah I played football at both schools.

Celeste: Okay, and then what was your degree in-

676: Criminal Justice and Sociology

Celeste: Okay, and then did you go straight from college into the Navy or do-

676: like a year, probably a year and a half where I was trying to get ready

Celeste: Okay back here or where you somewhere else?

676: Yeah I was back here

Celeste: Were you working that time or just training?

676: I was working then COVID hit so I was-

Celeste: What were you doing before COVID?

676: I was working at YMCA ... Kids camps and all that stuff,

Celeste: Okay which one?

676: The one on PQ

Celeste: Okay so if you think about your life experiences prior to joining the Navy, anything life shaping, kind of crucible type of experiences?

676: I mean when I was in 9th grade I was in a pretty screwed up incident where I was almost like basically kidnapped...

Celeste: Really

676: at gun point

Celeste: Wow

676: Yes that kind of changed me a little bit but-

Celeste: Was that here?

676: Yeah that was like right next to my high school.

Celeste: Wow that's crazy, I mean was it a short term thing or did you actually get taken in the car or-

676: Yeah it was pretty much... got taken in the car then brought back to this house for like a substantial amount of time.

Celeste: Oh wow, how did kind of your experiences college, everything else impact your training?

676: I mean football... college kind of helped because I got the maturity and I feel like if i went at 18 I'd probably wouldn't have made anywhere near as far.

Celeste: Yeah

676: So maturity level thing and football definitely kind of like building toughness building the mindset.

Celeste: What led you to join the Navy... want to join the Navy?

676: I was in fourth grade and my teacher... I always had this calling to be in the military, my family has always been in the military.

Celeste: Okay

676: And my teacher in fourth grade said her husband was a SEAL so I looked it up and kind of just wanted to do it.

Celeste: So you say your family... Navy or just Army, what brand?

676: My brother is in the Army and then my grandpa was in the Army and my other grandpa was in the Navy

Celeste: Okay

676: Both uncles are in the Air force.

Celeste: Okay

676: And just cousins that are married to people in the Air Force and all so too.

Celeste: Makes sense, what motivates you on a daily basis?

676: My family

Celeste: Oh are they... is your sister here in San Diego or-

676: Yes she's here.

Celeste: So talk to me about your experience at BUD/S?

676: Appreciate

Celeste: In what way?

676: I don't know like, I knew before going in it was going to be shitty but just kind of one of those things you don't really like you don't know until you are there

Celeste: Yeah

676: Right I had fun, I enjoyed it. Learned a lot about myself so.

Celeste: Yeah

676: One of those gut check kind of things its shitty but I mean its life.

Celeste: Yeah, what was the dynamic of class 351 like?

676: I felt it was pretty decent, there was like little clicks most of the time but for the most part everyone kind of like knew each other and talked to each other but yeah.

Celeste: Tell me about a time where you had to make a difficult decision while at BUD/S walk me through that experience?

676: Made pretty much identical decisions everyday its always one of those things the middle of evolution and you're just like... Its like one of those things that pops up in your head its all those negative thoughts like do I still want to do this, just kind of fighting those back everyday.

Celeste: Any specific thing or just this kind of happening all the time?

676: It just pretty much that everyday.

Celeste: Anything you have done differently at BUD/S?

676: Nah I pretty much, pretty much gave everything I had, pretty happy with that.

Celeste: If given the chance would you try to come back

676: Yeah

Celeste: Is that the goal?

676: Either that or transfer to the Army.

Celeste: Okay.

676: And try do it by their playbook.

Celeste: Do you know where you are going next from here?

676: I have no idea

Celeste: Still waiting

676: Probably Pensacola or something but-

Celeste: Okay what practices... any practice physical, mental, spiritual that you do to get through challenges.

676: I was in Box breathing that was like-

Celeste: Okay did you know about that before-

676: Yeah I looked... I saw some Instagram post where a Seal talked about it

Celeste: Okay

676: Probably a couple years before and then started just trying it...

Celeste: How has this experience changed you as a person if at all?

676: I mean its definitely one of those life changing experiences because you know grew up wanting to do this your whole life and realizing that it didn't happen so its kind of ... its one of those things where you kind of learn to adjust and figure out what's next and keep going.

Celeste: Makes sense, anything that... any specific evolutions that you struggled with?

676: Treading yeah I passed out twice.

Celeste: Okay

676: That was pretty fun.

Celeste: But just that one, anything else?

676: I mean all the evolution pretty much sucked like carrying a boat on your head for 10 miles that kind of sucks but either than that it was-

Celeste: How about your class, do you feel like your class liked you?

676: Yeah everyone in my class liked me.

Celeste: Anything else like I didn't ask that might be worth sharing, talking about.

676: I can't really think of anything.

Celeste: Okay great. I'm going to turn these off

676: okay.
